10D9N Pakistan Discovery

Price per person
from
MYR 7900

Tour Description

Embark on a journey of discovery with Sedunia Travel! Experience unique destinations, local culture, delicious cuisine, and
unforgettable adventures. Our expert planners will take care of everything. Book now!

Tour Itinerary

Day 1 :- Arrive Lahore

Upon arrival, meet & greet with local guide and transfer to check in hotel.

Day 2 :- Lahore

After breakfast, a full day tour of Lahore. Visits to the Lahore Museum established in 1864-1865, the Badshahi Mosque, and
Lahore Fort that now enjoys the status of a “World Heritage Site”. After lunch, visit Wagah border, Shalimar Gardens a World
Heritage Site. Return to Lahore. Overnight at Lahore.

Breakfast Lunch Dinner

Day 3 :- Lahore - Besham

After breakfast, depart to Besham we will join the Karakoram Highway (KKH). Enjoy a breathtaking view of mountain on your
way to Besham. Stop to view the FWO monument before arriving at Besham. Overnight at Besham.

Breakfast Lunch Dinner

Day 4 :- Besham - Hunza

After breakfast, depart to Hunza and continue on the KKH towards Hunza. Passing the towns of Pattan and Dassu, then
lunch at Chilas where there are world famous petro glyphs (rock carvings) left by Buddhist Monks on their way to China.
Shortly before Gilgit, we will see the meeting point of the greatest mountain ranges on Earth: Karakoram, Himalaya and
Hindu Kush. Upon arrival in Hunza, check in hotel. Overnight at Hunza.

Breakfast Lunch Dinner

Day 5 :- Attabad Lake - Gulmit - Hussani - Passu - Karimabad

After breakfast, drive 40 minutes to Gulmit in Upper Hunza. Explore Gulmit village and see local women weaving carpets and
making several other traditional handicrafts. Then visit Indiana Jones Bridge at Hussaini and return back to Karimabad.
Overnight at Karimabad.

Breakfast Lunch Dinner

Day 6 :- Hunza - Nagar - Gilgit

After breakfast, visit the 800 year old Baltit Fort. After that stroll around Karimabad bazaar. Then drive to Nagar, the other
side of the valley. Experience the best views of stunning landscape of both the Nagar valley and Ultar mountain range. Upon
arrival at Hoper Village enjoy the view of Buwaltar Glacier. After the visit drive to Gilgit. Overnight at Gilgit.

Breakfast Lunch Dinner

Day 7 :- Gilgit - Skardu

Breakfast and check out hotel. Proceed to Skardu it is an interesting drive as the road hugs the mountain side, with sheer
drops down to the Indus River below. Stop at Istak Village and continue towards Kachura and visit lower Kachura Lake.
Continue to, visit the bazaar and then visit historical Kharpocho Fort. Transfer to hotel and overnight at Skardu.

Breakfast Lunch Dinner

Day 8 :- Skardu - Sarfaranga - Shigar - Skardu

After breakfast, proceed to Shigar. Enjoy majestic views of the entire Valley guarded by the dominating Haramosh Range of
mountains in the West. Stop at the Sarfaranga Cold Desert, one of the world’s highest deserts. Then take an hour’s hike up
to KARI DONG the famous Shigar Rock. Proceed for walking tour of the 14th century Amburiq Mosque which received a
UNESCO award for restoration, the quaint maze like bazaar and the restored Khanqah. Return to Skardu. Overnight at
Skardu.

Breakfast Lunch Dinner

Day 9 :- Skardu - Islamabad

After breakfast, transfer to Skardu airport to catch the flight back to Islamabad. Upon arrival, transfer to the hotel. After
freshen up, visit Islamabad the capital city of Pakistan. You will take a city tour of Islamabad which includes visits to Faisal
mosque and Daman e Koh. Back to hotel. Overnight at Islamabad.

Note: Flight Skardu – Islamabad = RM 700

Breakfast Lunch Dinner

Day 10 :- Depart Islamabad

After breakfast and check out, proceed to Taxila to visit this fascinating Greco-Buddhist site. Then visit Sirkap, the 2nd BC
remains of the Bactrian Greek city at Taxila. Transfer to airport for departure.

Breakfast

Tour Prices

Category

Standard

Travel Period

Twin

1 March - 30
November 2024

RM7,900

Triple

RM7,900

Single Supp

Child

RM1,375

RM7,900

What's included

Destination
Departure Location

Return Location

Price includes

 Pakistan
 Lahore

 Islamabad

l 9 nights accommodation
l Sightseeing and transportation as itinerary
l Entrance fees to the museums and historical places
l English speaking guides
l Visa
l Halal Meals as per itinerary

Price does not include

l International/domestic flight
l Tipping tour guide and driver
l Beverage during meals
l Travel insurance
l Personal expenses

Additional Information

Remarks:

PRIVATE Basis

Flexible Departure

Minimum 2 person to go

GV5 – Discount RM 1,700 per person

GV7 – Discount RM 2,200 per person

Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org)