CONTENTS

4 Itinerary
12 Support Our Fundraising
14 Fundraising Tips
16 Kit List
18 Additional Information 

HELLO THERE!

Thank you and congratulations for signing up for the Islamic 
Relief Pakistan Hunza Challenge.

This guide will provide you with everything you will need to 
prepare for the challenge, including an itinerary and checklist.

Get ready for an adventure of a lifetime!

Hunza is situated in Northern Pakistan and boasts stunning 
landscapes, breathtaking nature and the meeting of three of 
the world’s most impressive mountain ranges. 

Gilgit-Baltistan is home to Fairy Meadows, Nanga Parbat and 
Mount Rakaposhi, the 25th tallest mountain in the world.

You’ll be supporting Islamic Relief’s work in rebuilding Paki-
stan in the wake of the devestating floods in August 2022. 
Your efforts will go towards providing people with homes once 
again! Your £2,000 target will make a world of difference to 
the dignity of families across Pakistan!

We can’t wait to take this journey with you! 

Your Islamic Relief Team

ITINERARY

DAY 1 - THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7th

ARRIVAL IN ISLAMABAD
You will fly into Islamabad international Airport where you 
will be met by our team.

The team will take you to the hotel where you will have the 
rest of the day to shake off any jet lag. If you’re an intrepid 
explorer who believes jet lag is for the weak, you’re free to 
check out the city at your leisure.

In the evening we will bring everyone together to have an 
initial welcome and briefing.

DAY 2 - FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8th

VISIT ISLAMIC RELIEF
Today you will be introduced to the Islamic Relief team 
based in our Pakistan Head Office in Islamabad. 

You will have the opportunity to speak to the staff about 
their work and learn about the projects we deliver in Paki-
stan.

We will also take you out to see some of our active projects 
in Rawalpindi, giving you an opportunity to meet some of our 
Rights Holders and hear from them directly how your beauti-
ful efforts impact their lives. 

The evening will be spent enjoying the city view of Islambad 
from the Monal restuarant in the hills overlooking the city.

DAY 3 - SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9th

ISLAMABAD TO NARAN 
Today we begin our journey to the spectacular landscape of 
Northern Pakistan!

We won’t lie to you, the day begins with an early start with 
with a 7 hour drive between Islambad and Naran - plenty of 
time to get to know those you are are on this journey with 
and watch the changing landscape become more dramatic 
as you continue North. 

Once you reach Naran, you will do your first activity of the 
challenge - rafting! 

Once you dry off, you’ll be spend the night in Naran.

DAY 4 - SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 10th

NARAN - HUNZA VALLEY
Another day of driving North but this time, you’ll be stopping 
along the way to take in some of the iconic spots of the area 
including Babusar Pass, Lalusar Lake, Junction Point (of 
three of the World’s highest moutain ranges!), Nanga Parbat 
and the Rakaposhi mountain vew points. 

The scenes will be immaculate and you’ll be wishing you had 
cleared more space in your camera memory!

The night will be spent in Hunza.

2
HOUR
HIKE

DAY 5 - MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11th

TREK TO HAPPAKUN 
Today the hiking begins. But before we get started, we’ll visit 
the Altit and Baltit forts in Minapin and then start the trek to 
Happakun, a stop on the way to Rakaposhi base camp.

Rakaposhi is the only mountain in the World that features a 
peak that drops directly, uninterrupted, for almost 6,000m 
from the summit to the base. Views Are Guaranteed.

Tonight you will camp in tents at Happakun. Don’t be 
alarmed if you hear deep crackling noises at night – that’s 
just the glacier’s around you doing their thing!

Elevation: 2,950m

DAY 6 - TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12th

TREK TO RAKAPOSHI BASE CAMP (UPPER TAGPHARI)
Today you will hike to Rakaposhi Base Camp.

8
HOUR
HIKE

The route will feature everything from massive glaciers to 
beautiful meadows, all in the setting of magnificent 7,000m 
peaks all around you. 

Today you will reach the highest elevation point of your jour-
ney at Viewpoint Ridge - some 3,800m above sea level!

A long day of hiking made well worth it when considering the 
settings!

The night will be spent back at Happakun for a second night 
of camping.

Elevation: 3,800m

DAY 7 - WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13th

3-4
HOUR
HIKE

TREK HAPPAKUN TO MINAPIN
Today we hike back to Minapin. Once we reach the village, we 
will continue on our way, slowly beginning our return South.

Along the way, we will visit the stunning Attabad Lake, Passu 
Cones and make a stop at the famous Hussaini Bridge for all 
your classic Instagram shots! 

We will spend the night in Hunza.

DAY 8 - THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14th 

ROCK CLIMING IN HUNZA
Today the group will take on rock climbing under the 
watchful eyes of trained and qualified mountaineers. 

You will also have the opportunity to explore Hunza 
before we leave for Gilgit in the evening where we will 
stay the night .

DAY 8 - THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14th 

DAY 9/10 - FRI/SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15/16th 

DAY 9 - GILGIT TO KHANIA 
The drive to Islamabad begins with a 9 hour drive to Khania 
where we will spent the night.

DAY 10 - KHANIA TO ISLAMABAD
A shorter 5 hour drive will bring you back to Islamabad for 
one last night in Pakistan.

DAY 11 - SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 17th

A BITTERSWEET GOODBYE
There’s never a right time to say goodbye, however, that is 
what you must do. 

After being transferred to the airport, you will eventually ar-
rive back in the UK and return to your normal, likely talking 
about Northern Pakistan to anyone who will listen!

REBUILDING
PAKISTAN

Unimaginable damage and destruction caused by the flash floods in Paki-
stan, took over one-third of the entire country, resulting in the worst floods 
to occur since 2010.

33 million people were impacted by the floods across the country. Now, al-
most reaching a year on since the floods began, the people of Pakistan are 
suffering from high inflation due to the huge loss of standing crops and 
agricultural lands. This loss has made it difficult for the average household to 
meet their essential needs.

People affected by the floods, are now under another great threat. Danger-
ous diseases are spreading due to unsanitary and stagnant water created by 
the floods are affecting people in the areas affected by the floods.

To restore Pakistan to the stability it experienced before these floods will 
take years with the total loss and damages to Pakistan expected to be over 
$10 billion USD.

Islamic Relief was one of the first organisations on the ground to respond to
the crisis whn the floods stuck, and carried out responses across Pakistan. 
There we delivered lifesaving essentials such as tents, food packs, clean 
drinking water, tarpaulin sheets, kitchen sets and multipurpose
cash grants. We have since delivered aid to a staggering 791,946 people, but
your support is still desperately needed to help rebuild the lives of those who
have lost everything in these devastating floods.

As yet another harsh winter approaches, the situation could drastically
deteriorate for those without adequate shelter - immediate
measures need to be taken.

For those without sufficient and
safe shelter, Islamic Relief has 
started to work on providing per-
manent shelters for those in need. 
The houses are being built in the
worst affected areas of
Balochistan and Sindh. Each
shelter contains a 14’x14’ room
manufactured using thick brick
walls to ensure the structure
holds.

Islamic Relief Pakistan will also
train 120 local volunteers, skilled
and unskilled labourers on the
construction of shelters. The
training will also include the
design of disability inclusive
shelters, in accordance to
accessibility standards.

An amazing Sadaqah Jariyah

FUNDRAISING

Daunted by the prospect? Don’t be, it’s a lot easier than it seems. You’re not the first and 
certainly will not be the last to take on such a challenge. Embrace it for all it’s worth. It’s 
important to break it into smaller, more manageable targets. 

Fundraising can be easy and enjoyable. And it really is all down to you. It’s a huge chal-
lenge to raise such an amount of money but remember it is more than achievable. Many 
challengers over the years have multiplied their fundraising targets!

Here we have outlined a few ideas to help you to raise the target amount. If you have 
any questions please let us know and if you need any additional materials Islamic 
Relief will be happy to provide them.

E-FUNDRAISING

The internet can, if used well, be an amazing fundraising tool for you. Your page will have 
automatically been created when you signed up.

MAKE IT PERSONAL

Make your page as compelling as possible by adding your own photograph and text. Make sure your 
page communicates the reason you have chosen to raise money, and why you believe 
Islamic Relief deserves support. Be creative!

FAMILY & FRIENDS 1ST

Before sending an email to your entire address book, ask your closest friends and family to 
donate first. An empty page can be a little intimidating, so do make sure to capture a couple 
of donations before contacting your entire list of potential sponsors. People tend to match the 
amounts already listed on the page, so target your most generous supporters first!

SOCIAL MEDIA

This is an excellent way of keeping friends updated and asking friends to pass on your 
fundraising page. You can link your page to your, other social media accounts to expose your 
page to more people. You can also add it to your stories on instagram through a link or any 
other social media you use regularly. Go live before your challenge as you prepare to create 
more traction to your page.

The internet can, if used well, be an amazing fundraising tool for you. Your page will have 

automatically been created when you signed up.

TELL EVERYONE YOU KNOW

Email your family, friends and colleagues with a link to your page, but don’t forget other groups 
of potential supporters: former colleagues, old school and college friends, and 
Facebook/Instagram friends you may be surprised how many would like to sponsor you. 
Encourage them all to pass on the message to anyone else that might support Islamic 
Relief’s work. You can also contact your work managers and see if your company will 
match your donations as many companies may offer this incentive. Send messages on 
your whatsapp groups asking people to donate to the cause.

CONTACT YOUR LOCAL MEDIA

Publicity in the local media can be an invaluable fundraising tool. A few lines in the local paper, 
or an appeal for sponsorship on your local radio station, can yield amazing results. With online 
fundraising, attracting sponsorship couldn’t be easier — readers and listeners can simply visit 
your page and sponsor you direct.

“Every act of goodness is charity”

– Muhammad pbuh

TRIP PACKING 
ADVICE

This is a suggested packing list of some items needed for this adventure.

Clothing should be casual and hard-wearing; easy to wash field clothes are best for most 
of the holidays. It is best to pack several thinner layers rather than one thick layer.

It is also best not to pack more items than what you actually need as we will be covering 
large distances in buses and you don’t want to be squashed up with your luggage!

SOCKS

SLIPPERS/ TREKKING WATERPROOF 
TRAINERS
TROUSERS

TROUSERS

(For the Camp)

(Not Cotton)

 THERMALS

 T-SHIRT MICRO FLEECE WATERPROOF CAP 

 BOOTS

TOP

JACKET

 GLOVES HAT HIKING BACKPACK HEAD TORCH
STICKS

 WATER SUNGLASSES PASSPORT 

BOTTLE 

 SUNSCREEN 

 WIPES

 FIRST AID INSURANCE INSECT 

 KIT 

 CERTIFICATE REPELLENT 

 MEDICATION 

 HAND
 SANITIZER

 SEWING KIT 

 
 
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Service Inclusion

Travel Dates:
Sept 7th - Sept 17th 2023

Destination:
Pakistan

Hotels
Naran Millenium Hotel
Roomy Hotel Hunza
Eagle’s Nest Hotel (Hunza)
Gilgit Serena Hotel
Arcadian Resort (Khania)

What is not included
• Flights
• Travel Insurance
• Food outside of arranged meals
• Porters for personal luggage 
 of participants
• Flight Cancellations
• Laundry
• Room Service
• Tips 
• Any additional excursions 

What is included
• English Speaking Travel Guide 
• Meals (Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner) 
• Daily Evening Tea/Green Tea 
• All transfers to cities and towns 
• Fuel Expenses, Toll & Parking 

Fees

• 4*4 Vehicle (where required) 
• Mineral Water in Vehicles 
• Accommodation 
• Entry Tickets 
• 

Invitation Letter & Visa Assis-
tance 

• Basic First Aid
• River Rafting Equipment 
• Rock Climbing Equipment 
• Porters for camping equipment 

* Trip is subject to change based on unforseen circumstances.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

• Flights

• Travel Insurance

• Food outside of arranged meals

• Porters for personal luggage 

 of participants

• Flight Cancellations

• Laundry

• Room Service

• Tips 

• Any additional excursions 

THANK YOU
Thank you for signing up to sup-
port the people of Pakistan and 
bring awareness to the continuing 
issues impacting millions of
Pakistanis. 

Your support is often the gift of life 
itself and we take special care to 
reach those who are most at risk, 
which is only possible with your 
support. We’ve seen with our own 
eyes how their lives have been 
uplifted and transformed by what 
you give. 

We look forward to seeing you in 
Pakistan in September!