Pakistan: Hiking
the Hunza Valley

AN ACTIVE CULTURAL JOURNEY IN THE KARAKORAM

Overview

TRIP DETAILS AT-A-GLANCE

17 days

Islamabad, Pakistan

Islamabad, Pakistan

16 nights in hotels, lodges, and forts

All meals included

Hiking & Trekking, Cultural, Limited Edition

Length:

Arrive:

Depart:

Lodging:

Meals:

Activity:

Trip Level:

Moderate hiking, 6-7 hours a day on uneven surfaces, cultural
exploration, maximum elevation 10,000 feet.

QUESTIONS?

HIGHLIGHTS

Our Area Specialists are your single

point of contact and would be happy to

answer any questions about your trip!

800.368.2794 | 510.558.2488

• Enjoy spectacular views of Rakaposhi (25,551’) on the Hunza Valley skyline
• Meet the friendly people of Hunza in their ancient villages
• Visit the fairytale castle of Baltit, a Hunza landmark
• Hike below Rakaposhi and to Hunza’s high glaciers
• Explore the serene Balti village of Khaplu
• Travel the famed Karakoram Highway linking northern Pakistan and China

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Introduction

LIMITED EDITION ADVENTURES

This is a Limited Edition adventure—which

means a unique trip we've never run before

or oﬀer only every few years. Led by our most

experienced Trip Leaders, these journeys often

take place in remote destinations with only the

most basic infrastructure for tourism. If you see

a Limited Edition trip scheduled for this year,

now is the time to sign up, as spaces ﬁll very

early and the trip may not be back for a while!

Planned daily activities and actual timings may

vary due to local conditions or the discretion of

your Trip Leader—it is important to bring your

spirit of adventure for these special exploratory

journeys!

TRIP DATES
September 7-23, 2025
September 28-October 14, 2025
September 13-29, 2026
October 4-20, 2026

Pakistan’s vast northern realm, Gilgit-Baltistan, is home to three major mountain
ranges—the Himalayas, Karakoram, and the Hindu Kush. Nestled here among
soaring peaks is the legendary Hunza Valley, home to ice-draped Rakaposhi
(25,551') along with iconic forts, a historic mosque, Buddhist archaeological sites,
and some of the most welcoming people in the world. We’ll hike the best trails,
visit local homes, and watch a spectacular mountain sunset at 10,000 feet. Before
we explore Hunza, we’ll spend a few days in the peaceful Balti village of Khaplu
in a setting reminiscent of the Tibetan Plateau.

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Itinerary 

DAY 1 ISLAMABAD
Arrive at the Islamabad International Airport, where you are met for transfer to the
Islamabad Serena Hotel, set on 14 acres of gardens. We gather for a trip orientation
and Welcome Dinner at the hotel this evening.

Should you wish to arrive inIslamabad early to rest up from jet lag and enjoy the city,
we are happy to book extra hotel nights for you at our group hotel (an “on your own”
expense).

Overnight: Islamabad Serena

The Islamabad Serena, a member of the

Leading Hotels of the World, is tucked

into a peaceful, 14-acre garden setting

between the Margalla Hills and Rawal Lake,

framed by Islamic architecture and al fresco

terraces and pavilions. The hotel has ﬁve

restaurants, from casual to ﬁne dining, and

the Maisha Spa and ﬁtness center.

Meals: D

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

 
  
.
Itinerary 

DAY 2 FLY TO SKARDU / KHAPLU / KHAPLU FORT
One of the most scenic mountain flights in the world brings us to the remote city
of Skardu (8,202') in Baltistan, the northernmost province of Pakistan. On a cloud-
free day, passengers on this flight are treated to views of some of the highest
mountains in the world, including Nanga Parbat, (26,660') Rakaposhi (25,551'),
and K2 (28,251'), the second highest peak in the world, all towering above other
summits of the Karakoram and Hindu Kush. Skardu is set in a valley where the
Indus and Shigar rivers converge in a vast and arid setting reminiscent of the
Tibetan Plateau. We board our vehicles here for a drive along the Shyok River to
the peaceful village of Khaplu (8,727'). Our hotel inKhaplu is the Serena Khaplu
Palace, a 19th century fortress-palace now converted into a boutique hotel, with
restoration work done by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC). With its blend
of Tibetan, Balti, and Mughal styles, the fortress-palace is an architectural heritage
site. Historically,Khaplu was a small kingdom ruled until relatively recently by a
hereditary Raja. The kingdom was well known in the 17th and 18th centuries for its
close family ties with the royal family of Ladakh.

 This mountain flight operates regularly but there is a small

Internal Flight Note:
chance it could be canceled if there is poor weather in Skardu. In that case, we will
drive to Gilgit, with an overnight en route, skipping the Skardu portion of the trip to
make the most of our time in Hunza.

Overnight: Serena Khaplu Palace

Located in the charming village of Khaplu,

the Serena Khaplu Palace is a unique

heritage hotel created by the restoration of

Khaplu's 19th century Raja Palace. There are

21 guest rooms, each one a bit diﬀerent and

decorated with local fabrics and artifacts.

The property has beautiful gardens with

fruit trees. Balti, Pakistani, and international

cuisine is served in the window-lined dining

room.

Meals: B, L, D

Flying Time: 1 hour

Driving Time: 3 hours 

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

.
Itinerary 

Overnight: Serena Khaplu Palace

Meals: B, L, D

Hiking Details: 4 miles, 2 hours, 650'

ascent / descent

DAY 3 EXPLORE KHAPLU / CHAQCHAN MOSQUE
Set on the banks of the turquoise Shyok River and flanked by apricot and apple
orchards, the sleepy village of Khaplu is a true mountain oasis. Today we’ll explore
the village and visit the 700-year-old Chaqchan Mosque, a quaint wooden building
dating to the era when Islam arrived in Baltistan from Kashmir, supplanting the
previous Tibetan Buddhist faith from neighboring Ladakh. Later we’ll hike up
to a high vantage point to see the ruins of a castle once owned by Khaplu’s royal
family. After lunch, we hike back to the village along a hand-dug water channel.
These channels carry water from melting glaciers and are vital for the village’s crop
irrigation and drinking water.

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Itinerary 

DAY 4 GILGIT
Today we’ll have a long but very scenic drive along the steep gorge of the Indus
River to Gilgit (4,929'), capital of the Gilgit-Baltistan province. The road first
contours along the curving edge of the steep Rondu Gorge then continues on the
smoother Karakoram Highway to Gilgit, set along the Gilgit River and once a stop
on the Silk Road. After checking into our hotel, we’ll stretch our legs on a walk to a
juniper forest on the outskirts of the city.

Overnight: Gilgit Serena Hotel

With spacious gardens and stunning views

of Rakaposhi, the Gilgit Serena Hotel is a

delightful retreat. The restaurant serves

Pakistani, Continental, and Chinese cuisine

as well as authentic local specialties, The

breakfast buﬀet oﬀers a wide variety

of choices, including fresh-oﬀ-the-tree

apricots, cherries, mulberries, and

strawberries (in season) from the hotel's

orchards.

Meals: B, L, D

Driving Time: 7-8 hours

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

  
Itinerary 

Overnight: Gilgit Serena Hotel

Meals: B, L, D

Hiking Details: 7.5 miles, 4-5 hours, 650'

ascent / descent

DAY 5 HIKE TO THE KARGAH BUDDHA
Starting right from our hotel, we’ll hike into the Kargah Valley on a path along a
water channel. Historically, this valley was a center for Tibetan Buddhism and traces
of Buddhist monuments are scattered throughout it, including the Kargah Buddha,
a carved image of a standing Buddha some 50 feet high and thought to date to the
7th century. Along the way, we pass through the traditional villages of Napura,
Barmus, and Kargah, walk among orchards of fig, apricot, and apple, then walk
back to central Gilgit town. There are spectacular views en route of the surrounding
mountains and glaciers. Today’s hike is long, but fairly level, and perfect for helping
us acclimatize for our hikes in Hunza and Nagar in the next few days. The most
notable Karakoram peaks in view today are Rakaposhi (25,551') and Haramosh
(24,308'). We’ll enjoy a picnic lunch along the way. Tonight we have a BBQ dinner
in the hotel’s garden.

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Itinerary 

DAY 6 MINAPIN VILLAGE / NAGAR VALLEY
The Karakoram Highway (KKH) is an 890-mile-long highway built in the 1970s
to connect the Gilgit-Baltistan region with the ancient Silk Road cities of China.
This morning we’ll drive a stretch of the KKH to Minapin (7,200') in the former
princely state of Nagar. Minapin village is famous for its idyllic setting—right at
the base of two of the Karakoram’s most beautiful mountains, Rakaposhi and Diran
(25,518'), the two connected by a huge rock wall perpetually covered by snow and
ice. Rakaposhi, with its sheer 16,400-foot rise from base to summit, is a stunning
sight here. After checking in at the Diran Resort Hotel, we’ll have lunch, explore the
village, meet some of its residents, and enjoy the marvelous mountain vistas. Before
dinner, we’ll have an introduction to the fascinating history of Nagar and Hunza, two
former princely states.

Overnight: Dumani Nagar Hotel and

Resort

Nestled in the Hunza Valley with magniﬁcent

views of Rakaposhi stands the wonderful

mountain lodge of Dumani Nagar Hotel

and Resort. Guest rooms are spacious

and comfortable, with small sitting areas,

closets, tiled bathrooms, and private

balconies featuring impressive woodwork.

The hotel has a hearty breakfast buﬀet and

there is a cherry and apricot garden that

adds to the charm of the area.

Meals: B, L, D

Hiking Details: 2 miles, 1.5 hours, 250'

ascent / descent

Driving Time: 2 hours 

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Itinerary 

Overnight: Dumani Nagar Hotel and

Resort

Meals: B, L, D

Hiking Details: 7.5 miles, 5-7 hours, 2,000'

ascent / descent (can be shortened)

DAY 7 RAKAPOSHI BASE CAMP HIKE / HAPAKUIN MEADOWS
Today we make a day-long hike from Minapin, right at the base of two of the
Karakoram’s most beautiful mountains, Rakaposhi (25,551') and Diran (25,518'). We
follow the trail that eventually leads to Rakaposhi Base Camp, but our destination is
Hapakuin Meadows (9,200'). The trail is steep and follows a mountain stream that
bubbles down from the Rakaposhi and Diran glaciers. We’ll start around 8:00am
won’t return until the late afternoon, with a packed lunch en route. The hike is steep
compared to our previous walks, but we will have staff with us who can accompany
any trip member back to our hotel if they don’t want to hike all the way to Hapakuin.

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Itinerary 

DAY 8 HUNZA VALLEY
Today we head into the renowned Hunza Valley, as fascinating culturally as it is
scenically. We’ll check into our hotel, the Serena Altit Fort Residence in the town
of Karimabad (8,200'), Hunza’s “capital.” After a visit to the Altit Fort and the
Baltit bazaar, we’ll be welcomed into a local home for lunch. Later we’ll explore
the Karimabad bazaar, the place to buy traditional embroidered caps, handmade
carpets, and handwoven shawls as well as items made with semi-precious gemstones.
Not until the 1970s, when the modern Karakoram Highway was created, was access
to Hunza’s valleys by car even possible, and Upper Hunza was until as recently
as 1974 ruled by its hereditary Mir (king). The Mirs of Hunza were a powerful
dynasty that ruled for over 700 years, with Baltit Fort as their royal residence. The
fort was abandoned in 1945, restored in the 1980s by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture
(AKTC) and turned into a museum in 1996. It has a commanding position on a
hilltop overlooking the valley, with stunning views from the terrace at the top.

Overnight: Serena Altit Fort Residence

Set at the foot of the 1,100-year-old

Altit Fort, the Residence features 16

well-appointed guest rooms built using

traditional construction techniques and

natural materials such as stone, wood,

and limestone instead of concrete. The

common areas are appointed with heritage

artifacts from the Mir of Hunza's family, and

the restaurant has a wonderful panorama

across the Hunza Valley.

Meals: B, L, D

Driving Time: 1.5 hours

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

  
Itinerary 

Overnight: Serena Altit Fort Residence

Meals: B, L, D

Hiking Details: 7 miles, 4-5 hours, minimal

ascent / descent

DAY 9 WATER CHANNEL WALK / HUNZA VALLEY
We head out for one of the most scenic walks of the trip today, starting near the
Baltit Fort and walking along the Barber Water Channel, built to carry water down
from the Ultar Glacier. We’ll take one of the uppermost water channels for our walk,
moving from east to west and crossing through three villages. As we walk, we’ll
savor views over the magnificent Hunza and Nagar valleys, with a picnic lunch en
route. Many of Hunza’s water channels were built centuries ago, hand-cut through
the sheer rocky cliffs and mountain slopes to catch the abundant water that flows
down from Hunza’s glaciers and snow-covered peaks. Without these channels,
Hunza would be a high mountain desert because of the absence of rainfall. The walk
is mostly on a flat path accessible by vehicle, so anyone who wishes to shorten the
walk can be taken back to our hotel.

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Itinerary 

DAY 10 UPPER HUNZA / EAGLE’S NEST TO ALTI SAT
Heading up the Karakoram Highway, we drive to Duiker (9,186'), one of the highest
villages in Hunza, and check in to our hotel, the Hotel Eagle’s Nest, which has
spectacular views over the whole valley. We’ll start our hike from here, following a
trail up to Alti Sat (10,000') for dramatic Karakoram panoramas, with a picnic lunch
en route. At dinner tonight, we’ll be able to watch one of the most beautiful sunsets
imaginable from our hotel. The sunset-viewing ridge is known as Noor-e-Toq (“The
Ridge of Light”).

Overnight: Hotel Eagle's Nest

Family-run since 1994, when it was founded

as a campsite, the Eagle's Nest is a half-

hour drive from the main Hunza Valley in

a high mountain location famous for its

breathtaking sunrise and sunset views of

Rakaposhi. The hotel has 30 simple rooms, 2

restaurants, an open terrace, a fruit orchard,

and incomparable Karakoram views.

Meals: B, L, D

Hiking Details: 1 mile, 2.5 hours, 700'

ascent / descent

Driving Time: 1 hour 

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Itinerary 

DAY 11 UPPER HUNZA / BORITH LAKE / PASSU GLACIER /
PASSU
Further up the valley on the Karakoram Highway, we reach Borith Lake, a serene
saline lake formed by the seeping water of glacial moraines. With a packed lunch,
we hike from the lake up to the Passu Glacier (8,530'), where we are rewarded with
incredible Karakoram grandeur that includes the towering ice peak of Shishper
(24,970') and the 10-mile-long Ghulking Glacier to the northwest. After our hike,
we’ll walk back along the KKH to a small restaurant to freshen up before driving to
our hotel, the Silk Route Lodge in the village of Gulmit.

Overnight: Silk Route Lodge

With its exceptionally friendly and

welcoming staﬀ, the 22-room Silk Route

Lodge truly feels like a home away from

home. Comfortable guest rooms have views

of either the mountains or garden, and the

restaurant serves food fresh from their farm

and orchard.

Meals: B, L, D

Hiking Details: 6.5 miles, 3 hours, 2,200'

ascent / descent

Driving Time: 1 hour 

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Itinerary 

Overnight: Silk Route Lodge

Meals: B, L, D

Hiking Details: 5 miles, 5 hours, 900'-1,400'

ascent / descent (depending on hiking

option)

Driving Details: 1.5 hours 

DAY 12 YUNZ VALLEY / BATURA GLACIER
We’ll start this thrilling hike right from our hotel as we head up to the new village
of Janabad, then along the moraine of the Batura Glacier. We continue higher up to
the Yunz Valley and the shepherds’ hut at Yunzben, where we enjoy breathtaking
views along the 35-mile-long Batura Glacier, flanked by massive Karakoram giants.
It is one of the longest glaciers outside the Polar Regions. The hike is strenuous, but
worthwhile for the views. Those who want a challenge can continue the hike higher
up, and those who want an easier day can shorten the hike to return to the hotel with
one of our support staff and enjoy time to visit the friendly people and kids of the
village of Janabad.

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Itinerary 

DAY 13 HUNZA SUSPENSION BRIDGE / ATTABAD LAKE BOAT
RIDE / GILGIT
From Passu, we’ll hike to down to the Hunza Gorge this morning to see Hunza’s
famous hanging bridges. These unique bridges are long, swaying constructions of
rope and wooden slats that span the deep Hunza River gorge. Local people still use
them to get to the other side of the valley. Those of us who want to can walk across
the bridge (about 40 minutes), then walk through the summer village of Zarabad
on the other side, recrossing the river via another bridge. Both bridges are among
the most photographed in Hunza. Those who don’t want to walk on the bridges can
enjoy visiting the friendly local villages. Further down the valley, we’ll take a boat
ride on turquoise Attabad Lake. The lake was formed on January 4, 2010, when a
large land mass crashed down into the Hunza River, blocking the river’s flow for
several months. Tragically, several lives were lost and many upstream villages were
submerged. Within a record period of time, Chinese engineers built a tunnel through
the debris and reopened the road. The lake is large and spectacular and has become a
tourist attraction. We’ll continue down to Gilgit for an overnight at the Serena Hotel.

Overnight: Gilgit Serena Hotel

With spacious gardens and stunning views

of Rakaposhi, the Gilgit Serena Hotel is a

delightful retreat. The restaurant serves

Pakistani, Continental, and Chinese cuisine

as well as authentic local specialties, The

breakfast buﬀet oﬀers a wide variety

of choices, including fresh-oﬀ-the-tree

apricots, cherries, mulberries, and

strawberries (in season) from the hotel's

orchards.

Meals: B, L, D

Hiking Details: 9.5 miles, 6 hours, minimal

ascent / descent (shorter option available)

Driving Time: 3 hours 

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Itinerary 

DAY 14 SKARDU
We head back to Skardu, arriving in time for lunch at our hotel, the Shangrila Resort
(7,381'). In the afternoon, we can visit Kachura Lake, Pakistan’s highest natural
freshwater lake.

Overnight: Shangrila Resort

The lakeside Shangrila Resort, opened

in 1983, was the ﬁrst-ever resort hotel

established for tourism in Baltistan. Guest

rooms are clean and comfortable and

there are magniﬁcent gardens as well as

mountain views.

Meals: B, L, D

Driving Time: 4 hours

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

  
Itinerary 

DAYS 15-16 FLY TO ISLAMABAD AND EXPLORE
Transfer to Skardu International Airport, fly to Islamabad (weather permitting), and
check into the Serena Hotel. The afternoon is at leisure for shopping.

On Day 16, we’ll explore Islamabad, including visits to the Lok Virsa Museum and
Shah Faisal Mosque. In the afternoon, we head up into the Margalla Hills for our
festive Farewell Lunch at the Monal Restaurant overlooking the city.

Overnight: Islamabad Serena

The Islamabad Serena, a member of the

Leading Hotels of the World, is tucked

into a peaceful, 14-acre garden setting

between the Margalla Hills and Rawal Lake,

framed by Islamic architecture and al fresco

terraces and pavilions. The hotel has ﬁve

restaurants, from casual to ﬁne dining, and

the Maisha Spa and ﬁtness center.

Meals: B, L, D

Flying Time: 1 hour

Meals: B

DAY 17 DEPART
Transfer to the airport for departure on homeward-bound flights.

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

  
.
Pricing

TRIP COST INCLUDES
•

Expert leadership of a Wilderness Travel Trip Leader
and local guides

• Accommodations in hotels, lodges, and forts
• All meals
• A glass of wine or beer with dinner
• All ground transportation and baggage handling from

meeting until departure

• All activities as indicated in Detailed Itinerary

TRIP DOES NOT INCLUDE
•

Travel to and from the arrival and departure location as
indicated in Detailed Itinerary

• Additional hotel nights outside the trip's scheduled dates
• Optional gratuities to Trip Leaders or staff
•
Emergency medical evacuation insurance (required)
• Other expenses of a personal nature (some alcoholic

beverages, laundry, etc.)

• Visa fees

TRIP COST

Prices are per person, based on double occupancy
2025
$9,595 (12-14 members)
$10,095 (9-11 members)
$10,695 (6-8 members)
Single supplement: $1,345
Internal airfare: $280 (subject to change)

2026
$10,595 (12-14 members)
$11,095 (9-11 members)
$11,695 (5-8 members)
Single supplement: $1,495
Internal airfare: $345 (subject to change)

Please contact us for future years' pricing

To offer the lowest possible cost, our trips are priced
according to the number of participants on the trip. All costs
are per person, based on double occupancy. If you wish to
have a single room, you must pay the single supplement
fee. Please note that Wilderness Travel staff, or guests of
Wilderness Travel such as travel writers, photographers, or
leaders-in-training, are not included in the tier pricing count.

PAYMENT TERMS
At time of reservation: $600
90 days prior to departure: Balance

CANCELLATION & TRANSFER FEE SCHEDULE
Up to 91 days prior to departure: No Charge!
61-90 days prior to departure: 25% of trip cost
46-60 days prior to departure: 50% of trip cost
45 days or less: 100% of trip cost

MANDATORY EVACUATION INSURANCE
Insurance for emergency medical evacuation is required
for this trip. Wilderness Travel offers a comprehensive
Travel Protection Plan through Travelex Insurance that
meets this requirement. For more details, visit our website:
wildernesstravel.com/insurance. Alternatively, you can
purchase a different policy on your own, as long as it
includes emergency medical evacuation coverage of at
least $250,000 per person. You can compare options at
insuremytrip.com.

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

.
Arrival & Departure

ARRIVAL & MEETING PLACE

Arrival & Meeting Place
Islamabad, Pakistan

Suggested Airport:
Suggested Date & Time:

 Day 1, by 2:00 pm

 Islamabad International Airport (ISB)

 A complimentary transfer is provided from

Meeting Place:
the Benazir Bhutto International Airport to the Islamabad
Serena Hotel. A Wilderness Travel representative will
meet you outside the customs area and will be holding a
Wilderness Travel sign or a sign with your name on it. An
orientation meeting and Welcome Dinner will take place on
the evening of Day 1 in the hotel. Please note that check-in
at the hotel begins at 2 pm.

DEPARTURE
Islamabad, Pakistan

Suggested Airport:
Suggested Date & Time:

 Day 17, anytime

 Islamabad International Airport (ISB)

A complimentary transfer will be provided from the
Islamabad Serena Hotel to the airport. Please note that
check-out time is 12:00 pm.

INTERNATIONAL AIR TRAVEL
You are responsible for making your own arrangements
for flights to and from Islamabad.

There are many online consolidators for booking travel,
but for more personal help arranging air transport, you
can contact Exito Travel at 1-800-655-4053 in the US
or 1-800-670-2605 in Canada. They are very adept at
putting flight itineraries together, to even the most far-
flung places. More information can be found on Exito's
website at exitotravel.com.

Depending on your routing, it is necessary to depart from
the US one or possibly two days prior to Day 1 of the trip
itinerary. The name on your airline ticket must match the
name on your passport exactly, and your passport must
be valid for at least six months after your date of return to
the US.

Please do not purchase your tickets until you are
 Once tickets are purchased, please
conﬁrmed on the trip.
forward a copy of your email flight confirmation from the
airline. It is your responsibility to ensure your flight times
coordinate with the arrival and departure logistics for this
trip.

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Trip Leaders

Wilderness Travel Trip Leaders have a passion and a joy for creating an unforgettable journey. We are extremely proud of them
and the incredible travel experiences they make possible. For more information, including client comments about them and
which specific departures they will be leading, please visit wildernesstravel.com/leaders.

PAUL AMSTUTZ
Paul Amstutz, who started guiding for WT in 1995, has spent years traveling, including guiding WT
trips in such far-flung locales as Nepal, Tibet, Mali, and Pakistan, with annual journeys on the Silk
Road through China and Pakistan. A science and ecology teacher by training, Paul taught math and
science at the Yosemite Park High School and Middle School for two decades and is now a full-time
naturalist guide with the Yosemite Conservancy.

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

at to Expect

WHAT THE TRIP IS LIKE This trip is rated a 

, according to our trip rating system. There

Level 3+, Moderate

will be a variety of hiking days, primarily moderate walks of 3-5 miles, and a couple
of strenuous days of 6-8 miles. Day hikes and cultural exploration are our focus of
the trip, with alternative or abridged hiking options available on many days. Much of
the trip takes place at higher altitudes, with a maximum of roughly 10,000 feet. Trail
conditions, weather, and the group’s level of fitness can affect hiking times and pacing.

Average Hiking Day

• 5 miles
• 4 hours
• 1,100' ascent/descent
• Altitudes range 7,000-10,000 feet

Challenge Days

• Day 7: 3.5 miles, 6-7 hours, 3,100' ascent/descent
• Day 11: 6.5 miles, 3 hours, 2,200' ascent/descent

TERRAIN At lower elevations, the trails are usually packed dirt, but at higher elevations, they

are often much rockier, with occasional sections of rock and loose scree. For the most
part, you can hike at your own speed, and on the most challenging days we may offer
shortened options for those who wish to turn back early.

GETTING IN SHAPE We strongly urge you to train for your trip, as your enjoyment will be highly

dependent on your level of fitness. The best training for a hike is to hike, especially
over hills or rough terrain. Next best are running, swimming, bicycling, or other
cardiovascular exercises. Stair-climbing machines are excellent preparation for
hiking uphill. Your feet should also be well prepared—make sure your hiking boots
are sturdy, comfortable, and thoroughly broken-in. Some people experience a few
problems when they first reach high altitude—slight headaches and sleeplessness are
the most common symptoms.

WEATHER Considering that most of Hunza is mountainous terrain above 6,500 feet in altitude,
the climate is very mild. Spring and fall are ideal times to visit Hunza, with spring
offering the bloom of apple and apricot orchards and autumn bringing vibrant tones
of orange, red, and yellow to the trees, making it one of the most picturesque times of
year. Hunza’s climate is a great contrast to the rest of Pakistan, which can be very hot
between spring and fall.

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

.
.
ACCOMMODATIONS

at to Expect

The hotels we use on this trip are the best available accommodations. They have
comfortable rooms with en suite bathrooms. Many hotels on this trip are operated by
Serena, a chain known for its quality service. In addition, Serena hotels are under the
umbrella of the Aga Khan Foundation for Economic Development (AKFED), with
profits from hotels and other commercial entities going to hundreds of schools, health
centers, and hospitals in Africa, Asia, and Central Asia. Our accommodation in Khaplu
is a historic fortress carefully restored by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC),
with hotel profits given to local community organizations.

CUISINE Hunza’s cuisine is simple and fresh and includes such specialties as gyaling, a round,

stretchy wheat bread served in a stack and typically dipped in apricot oil or butter from
local cows. Chapsuro is a pie filled with minced beef or mutton, onions, and spices
such as coriander, chilies, and tomatoes. Hunza’s ghilmindi dish is a kind of tortilla
with cheese-yogurt filling, and local wheat chapatis are often served stuffed with
cheese and spices. Our hotels will also serve a range of continental cuisine. Pakistan’s
cuisine in general is similar to that of India.

TRANSPORTATION We travel in Toyota Land Cruisers in the Hunza Valley, which work well on rough

mountain roads as well as the paved highways we cross throughout the higher
elevation. Our vehicles will transport the group’s luggage, so you only need to carry
a daypack for items you need during the day (rain gear, sweater, camera, water
bottle, etc.). Trip members are always free to skip a day’s hike and travel to the next
destination in the support vehicle (or remain at the hotel if we are not transferring that
day).

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

at to Expect

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Additional Information

CHOOSING THE RIGHT TRIP
Adventure travel often involves exotic destinations,
unusual levels of physical exertion, or activities you may
not have participated in previously. We work hard to
help you choose the right trip for you, paying attention to
your individual interests, abilities, and needs. If you have
questions about the level of comfort or any of the activities
described in this itinerary, please call Wilderness Travel at
1-800-368-2794 or email us at info@wildernesstravel.com.

REFERENCES
We’d be happy to put you in touch with a past client that
has traveled with us.

ABOUT NEW TRIPS
This is a new adventure and one that we are particularly
excited about offering. However, as with all new
departures, flexibility and a spirit of adventure are always
appreciated! Activities are described in the itinerary but
they can vary, sometimes considerably, depending on
weather conditions, the group, and other factors.

VISIT OUR WEBSITE
At www.wildernesstravel.com, you can book your trip
online or find out about added departures, last-minute
deals, and one-time Limited Edition adventures that aren’t
listed in our catalog. You can also access our complete
library of detailed itineraries filled with enticing photos and
videos, read bios of our Trip Leaders, find descriptions of
trip accommodations, and check real-time availability of
any trips that interest you.

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

www.wildernesstravel.com | 800-368-2794 | info@wildernesstravel.com

Please be advised that California has established a Travel Consumer Restitution Fund under the California Seller of Travel Law that took effect January 1, 1996. This
fund is designed to protect consumers from unscrupulous practices by discount airfare ticket sellers or air charter operators. Unfortunately, this law does not cover
non-California residents and, even in the case of California residents, it does not cover any foreign travel where the foreign “providers of transportation or travel
services” are not in compliance with the Sellers of Travel Law (compliance being defined as registered as a Seller of Travel in California and a participant in the Travel
Consumer Restitution Fund). Thus none of Wilderness Travel’s tours qualify and we are required by law to advise each client that they are not covered by the California
Travel Consumer Restitution Fund. California law requires sellers of travel to maintain a trust account or bond. This business has a trust account. California Seller of
Travel #100769640
While as accurate as possible at the time of printing, this itinerary should be considered an approximate indication of the schedule and scope of activities and trip
routing, rather than an inflexible schedule of events; it is subject to change due to circumstances beyond our control. This trip is subject to the Limitation of Liability
and all the terms and conditions as detailed in the General Information section of the Wilderness Travel Catalog.

Revised: June 17, 2025