Your passport to adventure

Karakorum Highlights

Country(ies): Pakistan

Tour type: Small Group

Transport: 4x4 jeep

Group size: Min: 2 | Max: 16

Days: 15 days

Start Location: Islamabad, Pakistan

End Location: Islamabad, Pakistan

Meals: Breakfasts - 14, Lunches - 13, Dinners - 13

Highlights:

Karakorum Highway; Hikes to Fairy Meadows, Beyal
Camp, Nanga Parbat BC (optional), Herrlikoffer BC &
Passu Glacier; Deosai Plains; Shigar Valley; Khorpocho,
Baltit & Altit Forts; Borith Lake; Hussaini hanging bridge;
Sunset at Duikar viewpoint.

 
Itinerary

Day 1: Arrive in Islamabad, afternoon city tour

This morning we will welcome you to Pakistan at Islamabad airport and transfer you to your hotel. At 2pm your
guide will meet you at the hotel and take you on an afternoon tour of Pakistan's modern capital. Our visits will
include the huge Faisal Mosque, which is the 6th largest in the world and the biggest in South Asia. We'll also vist
the Pakistan Monument which was constructed to symbolise the unity of the Pakistan people, and the impressive
Heritage Museum which presents the history and living traditions of the people of Pakistan both from the main
stream and the remotest regions of the country.

Extra nights are available in the hotel before the tour starts if morning arrival flights are not available or
convenient. 

OVERNIGHT: Islamabad hotel

MEALS: None

EXTRAS: Extra night in Islamabad - pre-tour (EXPAIS) Single Room Supplement (PASGHK) Guide & Transport
for extra day - Islamabad (EXPAGI)

Day 2: Islamabad to Naran via the Jaulian Monastery & Sirkup Old City.
Visit Naran Bazaar

We leave modern Islamabad this morning and start our drive up into the hills to the north. Our journey takes us
along the photogenic, 160km-long Khagan valley, which is embraced by the forested peaks of the lesser
Himalayan range. Along the way we visit the Jaulian Monastery and Sirkup Old City. Explore the ruins of Jaulian,
a Buddhist monastery, and imagine the serene lives of monks who once resided there. Finally, walk among the
relics of Sirkup, a bustling city from the Kushan era, picturing its grand streets and marketplaces

Naran is one of Pakistan's most popular summer holiday spots and is famous for its colourful panorama. Naran
itself is situated on the banks of the Kunhar river, and we have some time to look around before spending the
night here. Immerse yourself in the lively atmosphere of Naran Bazaar. Browse vibrant stalls overflowing with
handcrafted souvenirs, local textiles, and delicious street food. You can also engage with friendly vendors and
discover unique treasures that capture the essence of this mountain town.

OVERNIGHT: Hotel in Naran

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 3: Cross the Babussar Pass. Hike to Fairy Meadows

Prepare for some serious hairpin bends today as the road climbs up to the Babussar Pass (4175m) and then
descends again towards Chilas, situated on the banks of the mighty Indus River. En-route we'll stop for a break at
Lalusar Lake. We continue up the Karakorum Highway to Raikot Bridge (2300m) and then follow a narrow jeep
track to Tato village. The track clings to the side of the mountain with steep drops below and we'll be thankful for
our experienced driver! We leave the vehicles at Jhel Village there and take a 2-3 hour/5km trek to Fairy
Meadows (3300m). This is a strenuous uphill walk, which includes a gradual climb for most of the route, with one

steep final section of around 30 minutes (total elevation gain around 650m). Horses can be hired locally for
around 3000Rs per person (approx. GBP 13 / USD 18) if you don't want to walk up. 
This a legendary place, well named by German climbers, and has an unsurpassed view of Nanga Parbat
(8125m).

OVERNIGHT: Fairy Meadows Huts

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 4: Free time or treks in the mountains around Fairy Meadows

Fairy Meadows (3300m) is one of the most picturesque places in the world, and the start of some fantastic
mountain trekking routes. There are two options today. The easier choice is a 2-3 hour trek through dense prime
forest, and then through birch trees and along shallow streams up to Beyal Camp (3500m). This is a summer
settlement for the local shepherds and has stunning views of Nanga Parbat. An easy walk takes you back down
to Fairy Meadows to enjoy a camp fire after dinner. 
The other, tougher option is continue on from Beyal Camp for another 3 to 4 hours to reach Nanga Parbat Base
Camp (3967m, 500m ascent). Suitable for fit, and experienced trekkers, this is an 8 to 9 hour round trip, but well
worth it if you're up for it, 

For those preferring a more relaxed pace, Fairy Meadows is a good location for a relaxed stroll, or wildlife
spotting; keep your eyes peeled for marmots, Himalayan ibex, and colorful birds. The remote location of Fairy
Meadows makes it a perfect spot for star gazing at night. 

OVERNIGHT: Fairy Meadows huts

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 5: Hike down to Tato, drive to Tarashing

We'll leave Fairy Meadows reluctantly this morning and after breakfast hike back down to Tato (approx. 1 1/2 to 2
hours), pick up our vehicles again, and then drive on to Tarashing, through the magnificent, pine forested Astore
Valley which feels reminiscent of Austrian scenes (around 3 to 4 hours drive). The roads become smaller and
narrower and eventually we reach the remote village of Tarashing, the last village at the head of the jeep road
towards the Rupal face of Nanga Parbat. The village is watered by Tarashing Glacier which follows the route to
the base camp. The fields around the village offer picturesque scenery and the flower blossom in summer is
superb.

OVERNIGHT: Tarashing guest house

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 6: Hike to Nanga Parbat-Herrligkoffer Base Camp

We have another stunning mountain trek today. We'll start by driving from Tarashing (2911m) into the the Rupal
Valley, following the Tarashing (or Chhungphar) glacier's lateral moraine before crossing it and continuing to
Rupal Village. From there we hike through small settlements and past herds of yaks and cattle to the Herrligkoffer
Base Camp (3550m) at the foot of Nanga Parbat. The camp site is named after a German mountaineer, Karl

Herrligkoffer, who led the first successful expedition to reach the peak of Nanga Parbat in 1953. The overal trek is
around 8km, taking around 4 hours. 
Back at Tarashing, there will be free time in the village to chat to friendly locals and see how life is lived in these
remote areas where the glacial water supply is vital and ever decreasing. 

OVERNIGHT: Tarashing guest house

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 7: To Skardu via Desosai National Park

Our route today takes us through the Deosai National Park. These plains are a contrast to the steep valleys
we've traversed so far, and lie between the Indus River and the souther extension of the Himalayas. The altitude
averages 3800m, and the undulating green, flower-filled meadows are surrounded by snow capped peaks. Fresh
water lakes abound, helping to make this seldom disturbed area a haven for wildlife, including Brown Bear and
Markhor. After driving across the plains, we continue to Skardu, the capital of the Baltistan region. Known as
'Little Tibet', this area has one of the highest clusters of mountains in the world, and has ancient ties with nearby
TIbet. 
We'll break the journey to Skardu at the beautiful Satpura Lake, another large lake at the foot of the plains, and
visit the Manthal Buddha, a large granite rock into which a picture of Buddha has been engraved, probably
sometime in the 8th century. This is one of the most important relics of Buddhism in the Skardu region. 

OVERNIGHT: Skardu hotel

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 8: Day trip to the Shigar Valley

We take a day trip from Skardu to the fertile Shigar Valley today. We'll cross the Indus River, and head up the
Shigar River which is surrounded by wide flat sand banks, deposited when the water levels are high. The lush
green valley is a great contrast, and is well known for its fruit orchards. Shigar is inhabited mostly by Balti people
of Tibetan descent, and has many historical buildings of architectural significance associated with the
Noorbakhshi Sufi community. We'll visit the Amborik Mosque, and have lunch at Shigar Fort. 
After returning to Skardu we can take a late afternoon hike to Khorpocho Fort, built in the 8th century on a hill
overlooking Skardu. The main fort was destroyed in 1840, though the impressive boundary walls remain. 

OVERNIGHT: Skardu hotel

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 9: Skardu to Gilgit via Katchura Lake

After breakfast we'll drive back to the main Karakorum Highway and the town of Gilgit. The road hugs the banks
of the Indus river all the way, and we can see various stretches of white water rapids. We'll make a stop on the
way at the Katchura Lakes, and look out for the local wild apricot trees. 
Gilgit is an important town, and was part of the Kushan Empire in teh 1st to 3rd centuries. Buddhism persisted
after the Kushan demise, though few traces remain - one being the Kargah Buddha, a rock wall carved in the 7th
century. Gilgit is surrounded by high peaks, the most impressive being Rakaposhi (7,788m). We'll arrive in time to

visit the old British cemetery and the lively and eclectic bazaar. If we're lucky we may be able to see a Polo
match; Polo is extemely popular through the region and matches between neighbouring towns happen
throughout the summer. 

OVERNIGHT: Gilgit Hotel

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 10: Hunza Valley, Borith Lake, Passu Glacier View

We drive north again today on the newly reconstructed Karakorum Highway. Passing under the shadow of
Rakaposhi, our two hour journey leads us to the former kingdom of Hunza, called “the epitome of mountain
grandeur” by Eric Shipton. It is a fairy tale land surrounded by beautiful rugged & snow capped mountains;
including Ultar (7,388m), Lady Finger (6000m), Diran (7,266m) and Rakaposhi (7,788m).
In the Upper Hunza Valley, we'll take a walk for around two hours from Borith Lake (2600m), up to a stunning
viewpoint alongside the huge Passu Glacier. The saline waters are supposed to be good for the skin, and many
people take a dip here in the summer months. The site is also an important sanctuary for migrating wildfowl.
From the glacier, a path leads back down to the Karakorum Highway. We'll return to our hotel and there feast on
some of the best food of the trip with both Indian and Chinese influences creating mouth watering dishes.

OVERNIGHT: Passu Hotel

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 11: Passu to Karimabad

A short drive and walk after breakfast this morning brings us to the world famous Hussaini Suspension Bridge.
Considered the second longest man made hanging bridge in the world, this stretches for several hundred metres
across the Hunza River, with widely spaced wooden boards and a few wire ropes being all that is between you
and the rushing river below. Take care if you want to cross it!
We'll then follow the river downstream and visit Gulmit village, Pamiri Musical School, a local museum and
discover the KORGAH weaving center, where traditional craftsmanship meets modern social impact. This center
supports women artisans in rural Pakistan, empowering them through the creation of beautiful, hand-woven
textiles. Witness skilled weavers at work, learn about their ancient techniques, and perhaps even take home a
unique piece that carries with it a story of sustainability and female empowerment.

In Karimabad, the main town of the Hunza Valley, we'll visit the Baltit Fort which was the old palace of the Mirs of
Hunza. About 700 years old, the Baltit Fort sits on the edge of a cliff with a ravine below and the Ultar glacier in
the distance.

OVERNIGHT: Karimabad hotel

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 12: Altit Fort & Village, Duikar viewpoint

We'll take a walk around Karimabad this morning, following the main water channels. We can also visit the
bazaar in Karimabad and if we're lucky, watch a polo match in the town. We'll also visit Altit Fort and Altit village.
Like Baltit Fort, Tibetan architectural traditions are much in evidence. The fort is around 900 years old and has a
splendid defensive position overlooking the Hunza river valley, and it also served as the home of the MIr of
Hunza before the set of power moved to nearby Baltit (now Karimabad).

We'll also visit the CIQAM Project today - The CIQAM project is a remarkable initiative focused on empowering
marginalized communities in the Hunza Valley of Pakistan. The project combines traditional craftsmanship with
capacity building and skills training. CIQAM supports local artisans, especially women, in preserving their
heritage while creating sustainable economic opportunities. The project encompasses textiles, woodwork, and
other traditional crafts, highlighting the rich cultural tapestry of the region.

Late in the afternoon we'll drive up to the small village of Duikar (approx. 3000m) to enjoy a panoramic view of the
Hunza Valley at sunset.

OVERNIGHT: Karimabad hotel

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 13: Karakorum Highway to Besham or Naran

We have a long drive back down the Karakorum Highway today, enjoying a different perspective to the mountain
views we saw on the way up. Heading to Gilgit, we'll see the jnction of the three highest mountain ranges in the
world, the Himalay, Karakorum and the Hindu Kush. Along the way, we'll make a stop near Chilas at Shatial to
see the Petroglyphs there. An important historical crossroads, many Buddhist missionaries, pilgrims, Sogdian
merchants and traders passed through Shatial and left inscriptions and grafitti on the rocks. Over 700 petroglyphs
and 1000 inscriptions in more than ten languages can be found at the Shatial bridge across the Indus River. 
Depending on the weather, road and local security conditions, we have the option of following the original
Karakorum Highway and taking the Westerly route through the mighty Indus Valley to Besham where we spend
the night. This road follows the Indus for most of the rest of the day and travels through steep gorges, beneath
high rock walls with the river rushing below us. Alternatively we will return via Barbusar Pass route, travelling
through the Kaghan Valley again to overnight in Naran. 

OVERNIGHT: Besham or Naran hotel

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 14: Return to Islamabad via Taxila

Our final descent out of the mountains today crosses low lying hills on twisting roads to reach the 'Grand Trunk
Road', built orginally by the British to link Peshawa in the West to Calcutta in the East. 
We'll stop on the way at Taxila, once an important seat of Oriental culture. First mentioned as a satrapy of the
Archemenian empire in the 6th century BC, Taxila was later invaded by Alexander the Great and passed through
the hands of various different rulers before being controlled by Ashoka the Great who focussed the city into an
important centre of learning. Taxila remained an important place for philsophy, art and learning through the
creative Gandhara period and on until the 5th century C.E. 
We will finish the day and our trip with a walking tour through the Raja Bazaar in Rawalpindi, which sits adjacent
to Islamabad. This old bazaar bustles with life and a stop in the silver and gold bazaars will allow us to watch
traditional craftsmen at work, as well as perhaps pick up a final souvenir of our time in Pakistan. 

OVERNIGHT: Rawalpindi hotel

MEALS: Breakfast,Lunch,Dinner

EXTRAS:

Day 15: Departure from Islamabad

Your time is free today until we transfer you back to Islamabad airport for your flight home.
Extra nights and additional guiding and transport are available in Islamabad or Rawalpindi if you would like to
extend your stay, perhaps to add on a visit to Lahore to see the Fort, Mosque and Gardens. Please contact us for
details.

OVERNIGHT: NULL

MEALS: Breakfast

EXTRAS: Lahore Extension

Included:

Accommodation in comfortable hotels, guesthouses and cabins
Airport arrival and departure transfers
Transport in rugged 4x4 vehicles
Visa invitation letter
Sightseeing tours in Islamabad & Rawalpindi
Various guided mountain hikes throughout the route
Pakistani clothes (Shalwaar Chemise)
Meals - 3 meals per day
Tea & Coffee morning & afternoon
Loca English speaking guide

Excluded:

International flights
Visas
Travel insurance (compulsory)
Drinks, snacks & tips
Other personal expenses (eg. laundry)
Optional excursions

Notes

Note: Chilas-Besham-Mahsehra route
Our preferred route on our return from Karimabad to Islamabad is to follow the section of the classic Karakorum
Highway on the N35 road from Chilas to Besham and on to Mansehra. However, subject to the current weather,
road, and local security conditions, we may return from Chilas to Islamabad on the N15 road via the Barbusar
Pass and Naran. 

Options

Our tours are designed to include all that you need to enjoy a really special time in the destination you're visiting.
However, we do also offer some extra options to complement the tour and add some additional sightseeing or
activities, or some extra time at either end of the tour.

All accommodation based options (e.g. Single supplements, extra nights, cruise upgrades) should be booked and
paid for in advance so that we can make the appropriate arrangements. Other options may either be booked and
paid for in advance or while you are on the tour, though we recommend booking in advance to ensure there are
no issues with availability.

Many options are priced the same throughout the year, but some may incur single or high season supplements -
full details are given on the tour reservation form or on request.

Single Room Supplement (PASGKH)
Min numbers: 1

This tour is based on twin-share accommodation, with single bookers paired up with another traveller of the same
sex in the group. If the final group make-up means that no room share is available, you do not need to pay this
supplement. However, if you would like to guarantee yourself a single room throughout the tour, then please add
this option to your booking.

Note: Single supplement prices may vary seasonally.

Extra night in Islamabad - pre-tour (EXPAIS)
Min numbers: 1

This option adds an extra night in Islamabad to the start of your tour, staying in the same hotel as the main tour
itself (subject to availability). Your airport arrival transfer is still included. Prices shown are per person and based
on two people sharing.

Single room supplements apply. 

.

Extra night in Islamabad - post-tour (EXPAIE)
Min numbers: 1

This option adds an extra night in Islamabad to the end of your tour, staying in the same hotel as the main tour
itself (subject to availability). Your airport arrival transfer is still included. Prices shown are per person and based
on two people sharing.

Single room supplements apply. 

Guide & Transport for extra day - Islamabad (EXPAGI)
Min numbers: 1

If you will be adding extra nights to either end of your tour in Pakistan with us, then you may also wish to book a
guide and vehicle for your extra day. 
This option provides that guide and vehicle for you in Islamabad. The guide will also accompany you on your

 
arrival or departure airport transfer.
Solo traveller supplements apply. 

Lahore Extension
Min numbers: 1

This option extends your time in Pakistan to visit the bustling city of Lahore, the second largest city in Pakistan.
The extension includes 2 nights in Lahore, followed by a final night in Islamabad.

Day 1 - Drive from Islamabad to Lahore.
Leave Islamabad this morning, heading to Lahore. En-route we'll visit Rohtas Fort. In the afternoon, visit Lahore
Fort & Badshahi Mosque. This evening we'll visit Gawalmandi Food Street - Dinner is not included but there are
plenty of options to choose from. Overnight in 3-star hotel. 

Day 2 - Exploring Lahore and visiting the Wagah Border.
Morning visit to Lahore Museum and Masjid Wazir Khan. Afternoon visit to Shalimar Garden. In the evening we'll
visit the Wagah Border. Overnight in 3-star hotel. ?

Day 3 - Anarkali Bazar and Jahangir's Tomb. Return to Islamabad.
Morning visit to Anarkali Bazaar. Afternoon visit tp Jahangir’s Tomb and then drive back to Islamabad. Overnight
in Islamabad hotel. 

Day 4 - Transfer to islamabad Airport.
You'll have free time in Islamabad today until you are transferred to the airport for departure.

Note: Pricing for this option is based on a minimum of 2 travellers, sharing a twin/double room. Single traveller
rates apply. 

1. Accommodation 

This tour stays in a mix of different accommodation, based partly on what is available in some of the remote
areas we are visiting. In Islamabad and Rawalpindi we stay in a comfortable tourist class hotel (locally rated 3 or
4 star), while hotels and guesthouses are more simple and with less facilities further up the KKH. Bathrooms are
en-suite in nearly all locations. 
Accommodation is based on a twin-share basis, with single room supplements available if you would like to
guarantee yourself a single room throughout the tour. 

2. Transport 

The transport for this tour is based on using rugged local 4x4 jeeps. While the majority of the Karakorum Highway
(KKH) has been improved and re-surfaced, we will also be travelling on some rough gravel tracks and roads
where this type of vehicle is needed. We only use drivers experienced in driving on the KKH and on remote roads
like these. Seatbelts are provided and should be worn. 

3. Transfers 

This tour includes your arrival and departure airport transfers and all other transfers throughout the itinerary. You
will be provided with detailed information fo where to meet our representative in the airport, as well as a local
contact telephone number and our own 24-hour emergency phone number, when we send you your final tour
voucher approximately two weeks before your departure. 

If your flight arrives in the early hours of the morning, you may like to book an extra night in the hotel so a bed is
available for you to get some rest and sleep before the tour starts. Subject to your arrival time, you may be able
to rest in the reception area of the hotel until your room is avaliable (we will aim to help you check in early, but
this will be subject to the hotel's occupancy - standard check in times are 2-3pm). 

4. Joining on Day 1 

This trip starts with an afternoon tour of Islamabad on Day 1. We normally meet in the hotel at 1.30pm and leave
at 2pm - this will be confirmed by our representative if we pick you up from the airport, or by a notice in the hotel
reception if you are making your own arrangements to get to the hotel. If your flight arrives after around 11am on
Day 1 you will miss this afternoon tour. Extra nights are available in the same tour hotel if morning arrival flights
are not convenient for your dates or departure airport. During this first meeting with the guide, we will also collect
a photocopy of your passport information page and your travel insurance policy details. 

5. Activity Level 

You do need to be relatively fit and mobile to enjoy this tour at its best. There are several days on this trip where
hikes through the mountains are included. However, generally these are optional and can be skipped or
shortened if you wish. We do not consider this to be a trekking tour - it is a sightseeing tour with some hikes and
walks built into it. The only exception really is the walk up to Fairy Meadows on Day 3 where the accommodation
can't be reached by vehicle. This is a strenuous uphill walk of around 5km, which we take slowly and spread over
2-3 hours. It includes a gradual climb for most of the route, with one steep final section of around 30 minutes
(total elevation gain around 650m). However, horses can be hired locally for around 3000Rs per person (approx.
GBP 13 / USD 18) if you don't want to walk up. The trek in the mountains around Fairy Meadows on Day 4 you
can make as hard or easy as you like. It's a beautiful place and just chilling out and enjoying the view for the day
and not doing any walking would be fine.
On Day 5 we walk back down from Fairy Meadows again. This is nearly all downhill, and fairly easy walking apart
from the first steep section. Horses can be hired again if required so you don't have to walk (you'd be led - you
don't need to be an experienced rider at all).

Then on Day 6, the hike is around 8km / 4 hours at an easy pace, but this one is optional and you can skip it
completely, or do a shorter version if you wish, according to how you feel.On Day 8 the walk to Khorpocho Fort is
less than an hour there and back, but it's a steep narrow path and can be skipped if you wish.
On Day 10, the walk at Borith Lake is around 2 hours up to the viewpoint, but can be shortened - you don't need
to do the full thing.

Overall, you can do a lot of hiking if you wish, and it is a spectacular place do trek. However, you can also do
much shorter walks, or miss them all out and just enjoy the scenery if you prefer. So, you don't need to be very
physically fit to do this trip, but you do need to be comfortable with the options for the Fairy Meadows section. 

6. Group Size/Tour Leaders/Guides 

We are committed to being a small group operator, as we feel this gives everyone in the group the best chance to
get to know their fellow travellers and to hear and make the most of their guide. There's no point in us providing
great guides if you've got to peer over 30-40 shoulders to see them! So, we set our Pakistan small-group
departures to have a maximum of 16 travellers. The minimum group size is 2.

In Pakistan we provide a fully trained, local English-speaking tour leader/driver to accompany our groups.
Additional specialist local guides may be used for some of the sightseeing tours and activities included in the tour.

At Encounters Travel we have a policy of aiming to use only local Pakistani guides and reps wherever possible.
We feel this provide support to the local population and economy and also gives you the best experience of the
country and the sites you are seeing.

Printed on: Saturday 27th of September 2025

Note: Please download an up-to-date copy of these tour notes shortly before you travel as itineraries and
information does change from time to time.