www.keadventure.com

Hunza Valley and the Rush Lake Trek

Trip Code: RLT

Version: RLT Hunza Valley and the Rush Lake Trek





WALK & TREK

GUIDED GROUP

MODERATE

HIGHLIGHTS

▪ Trek across glaciers and alpine meadows to camp beside Rush Lake
▪ Take in the views of Karakoram giants, including Rakaposhi, Ultar and distant K2 (8611m)
▪ Marvel at the incredible natural beauty of the Hunza Valley as seen from the Eagle’s Nest
▪ Explore the ancient UNESCO-listed Baltit and Altit forts at Karimabad

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

2

AT A GLANCE

ACCOMMODATIONS & MEALS

▪ 7 days trekking
▪ Max altitude - 5098 metres
▪ Join at Islamabad

▪ All meals included
▪ 7 nights Hotel
▪ 7 nights Camping
▪ 1 nights Guesthouse

VIEW DATES, PRICES & BOOK YOUR HOLIDAY HERE

Introduction

North of the regional capital and former Silk Road trading post of Gilgit, the famously scenic Hunza
Valley provides access to some of the highlights of Northern Pakistan’s Karakoram Mountains. Here, the
intrepid traveller will discover historic towns and isolated villages, welcoming people, ancient forts and
wealth of breath-taking scenery including some of the world’s biggest glaciers and mightiest snow-
capped peaks. This fantastic new adventure holiday allows you to experience all of this without having to
undertake a particularly long or sustained expedition-style trek.

Driving to Hunza across the Babusar Pass (4173m), we have a 2-night stay in Karimabad which gives us
the chance to visit the spectacular 'Eagle’s Nest' viewpoint at sunrise, where the best of the Hunza Valley
is laid out before us and dominated by the great bulk of Rakaposhi (7788m). Whilst in Karimabad, we also
explore the ancient and historic Baltit and Altit forts, each of them UNESCO-listed. Then, a short transfer
takes us to the charming village of Hopar in the Nagar Valley, the starting place for our week-long trek to
the rarely-visited Rush Lake (4694m). Perched on a high ridge between the Hispar Valley and the Barpu
Glacier, this stunning little pool is one of the highest alpine lakes in the word. From a viewpoint above the
lake, the sensational panorama includes every one of the Hunza peaks, the Hispar La, Snow Lake and the
giants of the Central Karakoram including K2 (8611m), Broad Peak and the Gasherbrums. For an
unforgettable taste Northern Pakistan’s mountains and warm hospitality, without the challenges of a
lengthy and committing expedition-style trek, come and join the Karakoram Experience.

Is this holiday for you?

Driving to Hunza across the Babusar Pass, we begin our acclimatisation with a night en-route at 2400
metres in Naran. We then have 3 nights in the Hunza Valley before setting off on the 7 days of the Rush
Lake Trek. The daily distances are short on this trek, but the height gain is not inconsiderable, reaching a
high camp at 4695m. We have 2 rest and acclimatisation days during the 5-day ascent to Rush Lake.
This is not intended to be a long or continuous trek and should fall within the compass of regular
weekend hillwalker. The classic outing involves cross the Bualtar and Barpu glaciers (twice each), mostly
on unconsolidated moraine material but also on exposed glacier ice. We are able to keep clear of
crevassed areas and these crossings are actually relatively straightforward. No specialist skills nor
equipment are needed for this trek but a sense of adventure and a willingness to adapt to the needs of
self-supporting group travel will stand you in good stead.

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

3

Itinerary

Version: RLT Hunza Valley and the Rush Lake Trek

DAY 1

Meet at the group hotel in Islamabad. Transfers are provided from Islamabad

Airport.

Your holiday starts at the hotel in Islamabad. Transfers from Islamabad Airport are provided. The majority
of international flights arrive in the early morning and you may want to rest before lunch. The first group
get-together will be at lunch, during which the tour leader will provide a pre-trip briefing. If there is the
opportunity to include a sightseeing tour today, either in the modern city of Islamabad or in nearby
Rawalpindi, a city from the days of the British Raj, it will be optional and there will be a charge payable
locally.

Meals: L D

Accommodation
Hotel

DAY 2

Drive to Naran (2409m).

Flights to and from Gilgit are too prone to cancellation and partly on account of this we propose to drive
to the start of our adventure in the Hunza Valley. Setting off after breakfast, we drive northwards via
Abbottabad to Mansehra. Here, we turn away from the Karakoram Highway and head up towards the
Babusar Pass through the picturesque forest and meadow landscape of the Kaghan Valley. We stop for
lunch en-route and reach our hotel in Naran (2409m) in the late afternoon. Overnighting here provides a
useful kick start to our acclimatisation.

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Hotel

DAY 3

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

4

Drive via the Babusar Pass (4173m) to Karimabad (2500m).

Heading up the valley, the scenery becomes increasingly dramatic, culminating in a series of hairpin
bends which lead to the pass. The monument at the top provides a great photo opportunity and there
are view of snow-capped peaks including, if it is clear, Rakaposhi (7788m) which we will be much closer
to at the end of the day. Dropping down to the River Indus near Chilas, our journey continues, with views
of the mighty Nanga Parbat (8126m), into the Hunza Valley. We pass Gilgit and reach our hotel in
Karimabad in time for dinner.

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Hotel

DAY 4

Sunrise at the Eagle's Nest viewpoint, visit the UNESCO-listed Baltit and Altit forts.

We will have a pre-dawn start this morning and transfer on a switch-back road, climbing through poplar
forest to the renowned Eagle's Nest viewpoint (3000m). Here, we will have an amazing 360 degree
panorama across the Hunza Valley. Our guide will identify the big peaks: Ultar, Diran and Rakaposhi, to
name only the most prominent. After taking in the vista and the spectacle of Rakaposhi turning gold with
the rising sun, we will drive back to Karrimabad for breakfast. Formerly known as Baltit, Karimabad has a
couple of ancient and well-preserved historical forts on the outskirts of the town. After breakfast, we will
take a stroll through the streets with our guide up to the impressive Baltit Fort which has been updated
several times in its more than 700 years of history. The present-day fort, extensively rebuilt at the end of
the 19th century (having been dismantled by the British Raj), is rather Tibetan in style with a
whitewashed façade, wooden pillars and intricately carved wooden windows and balconies. After lunch
we will have a scenic walk of round 45 minutes to an hour, mostly downhill to visit Altit Fort. This fort was
built around 1100 years old and is the oldest monument in Gilgit-Baltistan. It was the original home of the
Mir of Hunza before he moved his court to the slightly newer Baltit Fort. Altit Fort is characterised by
small rooms and low portals with exquisite wood carvings. We will meet our vehicle at Altit for the 30
minute transfer back to Karimabad where we spend a second night.

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Hotel

DAY 5

Drive to Hopar (2750m) and free afternoon at this village in the Nagar Valley.

We start the day with the short drive back down to the Karakoram Highway where we follow the Hunza
River downstream for around 30 minutes to Murtaza Abad. Here, we turn off the highway onto a mostly

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

5

unpaved road and follow the Hunza River upstream, now on its opposite bank. After 20 minutes we
reach the confluence of the Hunza and Nagar rivers and follow the latter for a further hour to the
collection of small hamlets known as Hopar (2750m). The various hamlets are each set amongst a pretty
patchwork of fields and overlooked by distant snow-capped mountains. We will reach the Hopar Inn,
overlooking the moraine of the Bualtar Glacier, in time for lunch. The afternoon is free to do some
exploring and to meet the people of this welcoming village. Views up the valley, including the overlook
of the Bualtar Glacier, which we will cross tomorrow at the start of our trek up to Rush Lake, are
impressive.

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Guesthouse

DAY 6

Trek from Hopar across the Bualtar and Barpu glaciers to Barpu Giram (3250m).

The first leg of our trek takes us across the Bualtar Glacier, which is one of the fastest moving glaciers in
the world (at a rate of 20 cms a day!). After leaving the village of Hopar, we soon drop down onto the
glacier via a steep zig-zag path. A cairned trail leads across the glacier surface, strewn with moraine and
boulders with occasional sections of exposed ice. Just how straightforward this crossing is varies
considerably as is to be expected with one of the world's fastest moving glaciers. Microspikes (see
Equipment List) will be very useful here and you should carry them with you on this day. It will take
anything from 60 to 90 minutes to make the crossing and we then climb across a spur between the
Bualtar and Barpu glaciers. Dropping down onto the Barpu we now cross this next glacier, more easily
than the former, over moraine rubble and ice for a further hour to finally reach the ablation valley
beyond. An easy couple of hours of walking along this natural feature then takes us to our wild campsite
amongst sparse woods at a place known as Barpu Giram (3250m).

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Camping

Ascent
500M

Descent
200M

Time
6 hrs trekking

Distance
11KM

DAY 7

An acclimatisation day at Barpu Giram.

We are now above 3000 metres and it is sensible to spend another night at this altitude before
ascending to our next campsite. The location of our campsite is stunning and we can choose to take a
walk further up the valley and to climb the moraine for views of the glacier. This will greatly aid our
acclimatisation for the next stage of the trek.

Meals: B L D

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

6

Accommodation
Camping

Ascent
200M

Descent
200M

Time
2 - 3 hrs trekking

Distance
5KM

DAY 8

Trek up to Childin Hara (4333m) on the ridge leading to Rush Lake.

Our route up towards Rush Lake now heads away from the glacier, climbing steeply on a scant trail up to
the long ridge that separates the Barpu Glacier from the lower Hispar Valley. After 3 hours of continuous
steep climbing, we reach a slightly more level section of ridge where we take our lunch. From here it's a
further 2 hours of ascent to our camping place at Childin Hara (4333m). There are excellent views out
over a wild and glaciated landscape and over the distant Hunza Valley which is dominated by the peak of
Ultar.

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Camping

Ascent
1100M

Descent
50M

Time
5 hrs trekking

Distance
5KM

DAY 9

A rest and acclimatisation day at Childin Hara (4333m)

We will spend day based at our camp, exploring the mountainside with some gentle walks and enjoying
the superlative views that extend down to the village Hopar and the valleys of Hunza and Hispar.
Spending a second night here is important for our programme of acclimatisation before heading further
up to the objective of our trek: Rush Lake.

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Camping

DAY 10

Trek up to Rush Lake (4694m). Afternoon excursion to Rush Phari Peak (5098m).

The ground steepens as soon as we leave camp, the track climbing through a boulder field for half an
hour or so to reach a more level ridge-top trail. We gain height steadily and after around an hour of
walking we reach Rush Lake (4694m) and set up camp. The lake is unusual in its ridge-top location and
attracts a number of migrating bird species. We may also spot one or two yaks or dzos (yak-cow
crossbreeds) grazing on the lakeside pasture. This is a lovely and rarely-visited Karakoram gem and we

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

7

have the afternoon free to enjoy the far-reaching breath-taking views, notably across to Malubiting
(7458m) and down into the Hispar Valley almost 2000 metres below. After lunch, there is the option to
hike further up the ridge to the viewpoint known as Rush Phari Peak (5098m) which includes a steep and
quite rocky final approach. From the summit, there is an incredible 360-degree mountain panorama. All
the high peaks of Hunza can be seen; from Ultar to Diran and Rakaposhi, while to the south, the 'Golden
Pillar' of Spantik (7027m) catches the eye. On a clear day, we will be rewarded with views towards the
Baltoro giants of K2 (8611m) and Broad Peak (8047m). This optional and extremely rewarding afternoon
hike will add 3 to 4 hours to the day's trek.

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Camping

Ascent
600M

Descent
50M

Time
3 hrs trekking

Distance
3KM

DAY 11

Descend directly to the Barpu Glacier and cross it to Hamdar (3400m).

We have an early start and after breakfast at our lakeside camp, we drop down directly southwards to
the Sumaiyar Bar Glacier. It is 1100 metres of descent to the grazing ground, known as Phahi Phari, and
this takes around 3 hours, depending on our fitness. From here, we follow a trail beside the glacier for an
hour or so until we are beyond its confluence with the Barpu Glacier. We then drop down onto the ice to
make the glacier crossing which can take up to 2 hours. Here, we are well above the crossing point that
we used at the beginning of our trek and we encounter different conditions. The central part of the
glacier is easy going on level white ice, which is not at all slippery on account of the gravel that is melted
into its surface. The edges of the glacier, in contrast, are more broken up and we have to take care to find
the best route. Microspikes may be useful here. Reaching the west side of the glacier, we continue along
the ablation valley between the main hillside and the lateral moraine. This gives very pleasant walking.
Eventually the trail traverses the hillside itself high above the glacier and there is a degree of exposure
here. However this is the route that the local people use to bring their cattle to the high pastures and the
trail is reasonably well maintained. Approximately 2 hours beyond the glacier crossing, we reach the
seasonally inhabited settlement of Hamdar (3400m), where there is a collection of stone-built houses
and an area of cultivated land surrounded by extensive pasture. From our camp here, there are brilliant
views back across the Barpu Glacier to the Golden Pillar of Spantik at the head of the valley. In the
evening, if we are lucky, our porters and the local herdsmen will get together for a session of singing and
dancing.

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Camping

Ascent
200M

Descent
1500M

Time
8 hrs trekking

Distance
8KM

DAY 12

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

8

A spare day.

Depending on the fitness of the group and the progress we make, we may choose to split yesterday's
quite challenging stage. If we completed yesterday's stage as scheduled, we will have more time at the
delightful camp at Hamdar. Alternatively, we can spend the morning at Hamdar and then trek out to
spend the night at the Hopar Inn. Your Tour Leader will make this call.

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Camping

DAY 13

Trek out to Hopar and drive to Skardu.

We will make an early start for the trek out to Hopar, descending the western margin of the Barpu
Glacier on a good trail used by the people of Hopar, as they travel between the main village and their
summer shepherding and farming camps. We will reach the Bualtar Glacier by mid-morning and recross
it to Hopar. At the village we say farewell to our porters and crew, we drive back to the Karakoram
Highway. Passing Gilgit we reach the confluence of the Gilgit River with the Indus, where we turn to
follow this iconic river eastwards on a smooth road to reach Skardu by early evening.

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Hotel

Ascent
200M

Descent
950M

Time
5 hrs trekking

Distance
8KM

DAY 14

Morning flight to Islamabad. Afternoon free for sightseeing.

After breakfast, we transfer to Skardu Airport where we board our plane for the 1-hour flight back to
Islamabad. Arriving in the Pakistani capital, after a period in the mountains, is always a strange
experience and it takes a little time to get used to the hustle and bustle and especially the traffic. Our
private bus will be waiting at the airport to transfer us to the group hotel and once we have settled in it
will be time to take lunch (unless we have experienced unusual flight delays). After lunch, the rest of the
day is free for independent sightseeing or to relax at the hotel. Your trip leader will advise you on the
possibilities for sightseeing. Shopping for hand-made rugs is a usually popular option. This evening, we
come together again for a celebratory meal at the hotel or in a local restaurant.

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Hotel

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

9

DAY 15

Contingency day in case of delays.

Skardu is a 'weather dependent' airport and although, unlike Gilgit, the flights do operate on most days,
this is an important contingency day in case we have to travel back to Islamabad by road. If we have
flown to Islamabad yesterday, this will be a further day for sightseeing in the capital and your leader will
advise the group on the options available for today.

Meals: B L D

Accommodation
Hotel

DAY 16

Your holiday ends after breakfast. Transfers to Islamabad Airport are provided.

Your holiday ends after breakfast. Transfers to Islamabad Airport are provided.

Meals: B

Holiday Information

What's Included

◼ An experienced KE Western leader
◼ Islamabad Airport transfers for international flights on Day 1 and Day 16
◼ Internal flights and associated airport transfers
◼ All land transport involved in the itinerary
◼ All accommodation as described
◼ All meals throughout the holiday
◼ Full trekking service including food and all equipment (excluding personal equipment)

What's not Included

◼ Travel insurance
◼ Pakistan Visa
◼ Tips for local guides and support staff
◼ Guided Islamabad sightseeing
◼ Miscellaneous expenses - drinks and souvenirs etc
◼ PLEASE NOTE: an airport departure tax of Rs500 is sometimes payable.

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

10

Important Notice

Travel on the Karakoram Highway

We encourage you to read the up to date Travel Advice on the FCDO website. Currently, the FCDO
warns against travel on the Karakoram Highway (KKH) between Mansehra and Chilas.

Driving by road up to the Hunza Valley, we avoid the proscribed section of the KKH by taking the N-15
National Highway across the Babusar Pass.

However, if the Babusar Pass road is closed we may be obliged to travel on the above-mentioned
section of the KKH. In this event your insurance cover may be compromised.

We have been taking groups to Pakistan for 40 years and have never had any problems on this road. In
actuality, the journey along the Karakoram Highway is spectacularly scenic and an epic experience
which has been enjoyed by hundreds of KE clients.

Joining Arrangements & Transfers

The group will meet at the hotel in Islamabad.

To guarantee access to your room on arrival earlier than mid to late morning, you have the extra-cost
option of booking an additional night. The usual procedure is for the group to relax in the hotel public
areas until the rooms are available.

Transfers are provided from/to Islamabad Airport for all clients arriving on Day 1 of the Land Only
itinerary and departing on the last day of the Land Only itinerary.

Hotel contact details and an emergency number will be provided with your booking confirmation.

Meal Plan

All meals are included in the holiday price from lunch on Day 1 to breakfast on Day 16.

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

11

Food & Water

Drinking Water

It is not recommended to drink untreated water from the taps. If you are on a trekking or cycling holiday,
water is supplied to fill up your individual bottles. This will be boiled, filtered or provided in large jerry
cans or 5 litre bottles. Additionally you should take purification tablets or a filter bottle (such as a Water-
To-Go bottle) to treat your water when in towns or where water is not supplied. We do not encourage
the purchasing of single use plastic bottles.

During the Rush Lake Trek breakfasts and dinners will be provided in a mess tent at camp. There will be a
mix of local and Western dishes made from ingredients purchased in Pakistan and cooked by highly
trained trek cooks. Breakfasts consist of cereal, muesli or porridge, eggs, bread or chapatti, tea and
coffee. Lunch is generally a picnic consisting of a choice of canned fish, tinned meats, cheese, pickles,
pate, and crackers or chapattis, sometimes accompanied by hot soup and noodles and finished off with
tea or coffee. Dinner is a three course meal; soup, main course, dessert. At the hotels we use during this
holiday, it is not unusual that dinner is provided in the form of a buffet with a wide choice of dishes.

Special Diets

Whilst we can cater for vegetarians, albeit sometimes with a more limited choice, we cannot always
provide for special diets. Due to the nature of some of the trips that we operate and the countries in
which we operate them, it can be very hard (and sometimes impossible) to cater for a wide range of
dietary choices and you may have to supplement your meals with food/snacks from home. If you have
specific dietary requirements please do speak to our sales team and they will be able to advise you
whether or not we will be able to offer your specific choice. Please note that we are unable to provide
separate menus and cannot accept liability for any problems arising from special dietary requirements or
intolerances.

Accommodation

During this trip the group will have 3 nights in Islamabad at a good standard of hotel. There will also be 4
nights in tourist class hotels (1 night in Naran, 2 in Karimabad and 1 in Skardu). When in Hopar (1 or 2
nights) we will use a simple guesthouse. Accommodation at each of these places is twin-share and there
are generally en-suite facilities. Whilst on trek there will be 6 or 7 nights camping in 2-person tents. If you
are travelling by yourself you will be paired with another single client of the same sex. Single room
occupancy can be pre-booked for each of the hotel nights and you can also pre-book additional hotel
nights in Islamabad. Hotels are subject to availability and prices may vary. It is also possible to arrange for
single tent occupancy at additional cost.

Internal flights

Skardu is a weather-dependent airport. Since the valley is completely surrounded by high mountains,
planes can only operate when the visibility is good, which means our flight back to Islamabad at the end
of the holiday is not guaranteed. The planes fly much more often than not, but cancellations can occur
and in these circumstances we will travel by road. If we were not prepared to do this, our groups would
risk being stranded in Skardu. See our 'Important Note' about travel on the Karakoram Highway for more
details.

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

12

Group Leader & Support Staff

The group will be led by an experienced KE Western leader assisted by a local guide. During the Rush
Lake Trek the group will be accompanied by a support crew, including a cook and a team of porters who
will carry all equipment and personal trek bags. This crew is drawn from local villagers who depend on
working for trekking groups to supplement their subsistence income. Most of the crew will have worked
with KE groups before. Travelling with these friendly and hardy people is a major part of the experience
of Karakoram trekking.

Altitude

This holiday involves going to very high altitude. During the course of your trip you will be spending at
least one night above 4000 metres and/or trekking to 5000 metres or above. This is not something that
you should worry about; the human body is quite capable of adapting to a very wide range of altitudes,
but it is important that we follow some simple rules in order to acclimatise successfully. Before coming
on this holiday you should read the advice on trekking at high altitude. Unless you have previous
experience of trekking above 4000 metres you should consult one of our trekking experts before
embarking on this holiday. On this trip we carry a portable altitude chamber (PAC-bag) and/or bottled
oxygen for use in emergencies.

Spending Money

Approximately £200 (or equivalent in US dollars, Euros etc.) changed into local currency should be
allowed for miscellaneous expenses, including porter and trek crew tips. You will also pay directly for
guided sightseeing in in Islamabad if this works out for your group and you choose to take part in the
tour. The cost of this will be approximately 50 US dollars for a half-day tour. Note that money for tips
should be changed into local currency (denominations of 500 rupees or smaller only) before you leave
Islamabad. It is not necessary to purchase local currency (Pakistan rupees) before your trip. Money can
be changed at a reasonable rate at the airport or at authorised money changers. Since you will be
changing the majority of your spending money into local currency soon after your arrival, we
recommend that you take it in cash, taking care that all notes are new, clean and in good condition. US
dollars, Sterling and Euros can readily be exchanged at the airport. US dollars will give you more flexibility
to exchange in smaller towns or in an emergency. Credit cards can be used to purchase many goods in
Islamabad or Skardu and are particularly useful for more expensive items such as carpets. Withdrawing
cash from an ATM machine may prove to be impossible anywhere on this trip.

Guidance on Tipping

It is usual to tip the members of your local crew and drivers, if you are happy with the services provided.
We estimate that £80 (in local currency equivalent) will cover this aspect of your trip expenditure.
Towards the end of the trek, the trip leader will help the group to determine an appropriate level of
tipping for each crew member, and this is most usually done as a group ‘thank-you’ with ceremony on
the final day of trekking.

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

13

Beat the Jet Lag

Our holidays are normally designed with minimal 'down time' at the start of the trip, but having a day or
two at the beginning will have the additional benefit of allowing you time to get over the stress of a long
journey or travelling across time zones, leaving you refreshed and ready for your holiday. We can easily
arrange for you to have additional nights and airport transfers.

Baggage Allowance

For this holiday you should take one piece of luggage, which should be a soft and sturdy duffel bag, and
one day pack. Your baggage will be carried in the support vehicle and by porters during the trek. The
packed weight of your bag whilst trekking including your sleeping bag and camping mattress should be
no more than 12.5 kgs. It is possible to leave items not required on trek at the group hotel in Islamabad
and also in Hopar.

Group Size & Holiday Status

For each holiday there is a minimum number of participants required to enable it to go ahead. Once the
minimum number is reached, the trip status will change from 'Available' to 'Guaranteed to run'. You can
check the trip status for each departure in the ‘Dates and Prices’ table. Other than in exceptional
circumstances, we will not cancel a trip once it has achieved this guaranteed to run status so you are
free to proceed with your international flight booking and other travel arrangements.

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

14

General Information

Passport & Visas

The information that we provide is for UK passport holders.

A passport with 6 months remaining validity at the end of your stay is generally required, and you should
have at least 2 blank pages for each country that you visit.

For other nationalities, please refer to your own Government website for the latest information.

It is your responsibility to ensure that you have the correct travel documents including vaccinations
and health certificates (see Health & Vaccinations below), and visas for your holiday. Please ensure that
you check the FCDO for the latest advice for each country visited before travel.

All British passport holders are required to obtain a visa for entry into Pakistan. Download our Pakistan
Visa Information document for full details of how to apply.

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

15

Health & Vaccinations

You should contact your doctor or travel clinic to check whether you require any vaccinations or other
medical preparation prior to your holiday. On holidays to more remote areas you should also have a
dentist check up. You should be up to date with routine courses and boosters as recommended in the
UK e.g. diphtheria-tetanus-polio and measles-mumps-rubella), along with hepatitis A and typhoid. In
addition you should check whether any specific vaccinations are needed to the regions that you are
travelling to. A good online resource is Travel Health Pro.

Malaria

Malarial prophylaxis is discretionary for this trip. Malaria exists in the area around Islamabad. However,
incidences of urban transmission of malaria are extremely low. In Skardu or Gilgit and in the mountains
there is no malaria risk.

Yellow Fever

A certificate of yellow fever vaccination is required if travelling from countries with risk of yellow fever
transmission and for travellers having transited for more than 12 hrs through an airport of a country with
risk of yellow fever transmission.

Polio

Travellers who intend to visit Pakistan for 4 weeks or more should note that proof of Polio vaccination will
be required on exiting the country.

Severe Allergies

If you have a severe allergy please inform the KE office before you travel. We will do all we can to help,
but we cannot guarantee an allergy free environment on KE trips. You will need to carry your own
treatment for the allergy with you, as 'adrenaline auto-injectors' are not carried as standard by KE leaders
and staff. You should inform your leader on arrival of your allergy, and let them know where you keep
your adrenaline pen.

Currency

The unit of currency in Pakistan is the Pakistani Rupee.

Preparing for your Holiday

It makes a lot of sense to spend some time before coming on a trekking holiday getting some additional
exercise. The fitter you are, after all, the more enjoyable you will find the experience. You need to be
comfortable walking for 6 to 8 hours on the longest of the trekking days and you need to be able to cope
with a variety of terrain including loose scree and boulders. Regular hiking in hilly country is the best
training but running, cycling and swimming are also good for developing cardio vascular fitness and
stamina.

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

16

Climate

From mid-June to the end of August, we can expect to encounter temperatures as high as 30°C at
Karimabad, 25°C at Hopar and 10°C at Rush Lake. If the weather is clear, it will be warm during the day
and cool in the evenings above 3000 metres. This part of Pakistan is reasonably sheltered from the
effects of the monsoon and the weather tends to be settled during the summer. However, weather in
mountainous areas is notoriously difficult to predict, and short-lived storms can occur at any time of the
year.

Travel Aware

As a reputable tour operator, KE supports the British Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office's
‘Travel Aware’ campaign to enable British citizens to prepare for their journeys overseas. The 'Travel
Aware' website provides a single, authoritative source of advice for all kinds of travellers and we
recommend that before travel, all KE clients visit the official UK Government website at
travelaware.campaign.gov.uk and read the FCDO Travel Advice for their chosen destination. North
Americans can also check out the U.S. Department of State website: www.travel.state.gov for essential
travel advice and tips.

KE treat the safety and security of all clients as the most important aspect of any trip we organise. We
would not run any trip that we did not consider reasonably safe. Should the FCDO advise against travel
for any reason, we will contact everyone booked to travel to discuss the situation. We receive regular
updates directly from the FCDO and are in constant touch with our contacts on the ground. If you have
any questions about government travel advice, please call our office.

Single Use Plastic

KE do not encourage the use of single use plastic items. We are ensuring that our agents all over the
world are working together to reduce the problem and educate those around them. We are leading by
example in our KE office by reducing our plastic use.

Books

◼ Trekking in Pakistan. Isobel Shaw.
◼ Karakoram Highway. King.
◼ Top Treks of the World. Steve Razzetti.
◼ Throne Room of the Mountain Gods. Galen Rowell.

Maps

TerraQuest: Karakoram. 1 : 175,000 Available from Stanfords - stanfords.co.uk

This is the best map for all of KE's current Karakoram treks. Covers the central part of the Karakoram
Range on a waterproof and tear-resistant, double-sided map, with coverage extending from Gilgit and
the Karakoram Highway to the peaks of K2 and Gasherbrum. The map is presented in a special format,
handy for conveniently viewing just small sections of it at one time.

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

17

Private Groups Information

Make this KE Adventure holiday your own!

◼ Do our normal group departure dates not fit?

◼ Would you prefer to travel with just friends and/or family?

◼ Are you looking to organise a trip for your local walking, biking or mountaineering club?

It's really easy to make a trip your own. Simply select from our full range of adventure holidays and
choose the dates that work for you and your group.

We are experts in creating holidays for groups of friends, families, charities and clubs. Our personal
service means you’ll be fully involved as we make the arrangements for your perfect adventure holiday.

Independence with Security

Travelling as a KE Private Group allows you more flexibility and choice, but still with the peace of mind
that everything is pre-planned and arranged for your group by a reputable adventure travel company.

To take your first step to an amazing adventure with your friends and family complete the private group
enquiry form, or call our Sales Experts on: 017687 73966

Travel Insurance

It is an essential condition of joining a holiday with KE Adventure Travel that you have a valid travel
insurance policy to cover the cost of medical treatment and to protect the value of your holiday in the
event of cancellation. When taking out insurance please ensure the policy you choose covers you for
the activities and altitude included in your itinerary.

For appropriate insurance cover we recommend Campbell Irvine Direct. Please go to our Travel
Insurance page for further information and to get a quote.

Equipment Information

Equipment List

The following checklist should help you with your packing. You do not have to bring everything on the
list and you should use your own experience and judgement, but we ask you to ensure you have the
items on the mandatory list. When selecting clothing for this holiday, please be culturally sensitive. Tight
fitting or revealing clothing is not appropriate. Shorts and tee shirts can be worn but only once we are
above the last temporary habitations of the valley.

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

18

You must bring the following items:

◼ Hiking boots

◼ Sports sandals or old shoes (for river crossings)

◼ Kahtoola Microspikes (or similar footwear traction) for the glacier crossings

◼ Waterproof overtrousers

◼ Fleece jacket or warm jumper

◼ Waterproof jacket

◼ Warm jacket (e.g. down)

◼ Scarf or buff

◼ Sunhat

◼ Warm hat

◼ Sunglasses

◼ Gloves or mittens

◼ Daypack 30 to 40 litres

◼ Headtorch and spare batteries

◼ Sun protection (including total bloc for lips, nose etc.)

◼ Water bottles 1 litre (x2) (we encourage re-filling water bottles rather than single use plastic)

◼ Water purification tablets

◼ Sleeping bag (comfort rated -15°C)

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

19

◼ Thermarest or similar sleeping mat

◼

Basic First Aid Kit including: antiseptic cream, throat lozenges, diarrhoea treatment (Imodium), altitude
(Diamox), painkillers, plasters, blister treatment, and re-hydration salts (Dioralite).

◼ 2x small padlocks (one for left luggage and one for trek bag)

Packing checklist:

◼ Socks

◼ Trainers for camp use

◼ Spare laces

◼ Trekking trousers

◼ Underwear

◼ Baselayer shirts

◼ Shirts or T-shirts

◼ Thermal underwear

◼ Trekking poles (recommended)

◼ Gaiters (optional)

◼ Insect repellant

◼ Washbag and toiletries

◼ Sleeping bag liner

◼ Travel clothes

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

20

◼ Pen-knife (note: always pack sharp objects in hold baggage)

◼ Antibacterial handwash

◼ Small towel

◼ Repair kit – (eg. needle, thread, duct tape)

◼ Camera

◼ Dry bags(s) for daypack/kitbag contents (to ensure they keep dry)

Notes:

PHD Gear Advisor PHD specialise in cold weather equipment, from the world’s lightest right up to the
most protective for Everest or the Poles. It’s a large range. So to help you choose what you need to keep
you warm, PHD have listed the gear that is appropriate for this expedition. View
>>http://www.phdesigns.co.uk/gearadviserdestination.php?destinations_id=18

Land Only Information

Please refer to the 'Joining Arrangements & Transfers' within Holiday Information for further details.

Flights and other transport to your destination should not be booked until you have received your
booking confirmation and the departure is showing 'Guaranteed to Run' or 'Limited'.

Land Only Information

The LAND ONLY dates and prices are for the itinerary starting at the hotel in Islamabad. Transfers are
provided from/to Islamabad Airport for all clients arriving on Day 1 of the Land Only itinerary and
departing on the last day of the Land Only itinerary.

Flight Inclusive Information

Limited seats are available at the advertised flight price, please book as early as you can. If we are unable
to secure seats at the price shown, or you have requested regional departures and/or upgrades, we will
provide you with an alternative quote. It is likely that flight payment will be in advance of your final
holiday balance. Booking a flight inclusive package means you will benefit from full financial protection,
eases your holiday planning, and leaves us to deal with airlines and schedule changes. If you book flights
through KE Adventure Travel we will offset the carbon of your flight.

Regional departures and/or alternative carriers are available on request.

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415

21

Flight Inclusive Information

The FLIGHT INCLUSIVE dates and prices are based on UK flights from London to Islamabad. Outbound
flights will usually depart from the UK in the morning, arriving in the early morning of the following day
(Day 1 of the Land Only itinerary). Return flights will depart Islamabad usually in the morning of the last
day of the itinerary, arriving in the UK later the same day.

Why Choose KE

Why KE

With 40 years of experience running adventure holidays in Northern Pakistan, there really is no
alternative if you are looking to visit this stunning part of the world and we have long considered
ourselves to be the experts on operating treks in this region. Our most renowned Pakistan treks are epic
in nature, so we have developed this walking holiday to access some of the most staggeringly beautiful
scenery in Pakistan for those who would like to experience this wonderful country another way.

Please Note This document was downloaded on 27/09/2025 and the trip is subject to change

www.keadventure.com

UK: +44(0) 17687 73966

US (toll-free): 1-888-630-4415