Cherry Blossom
CHALLENGE
2025

17th - 27th April 2025

Welcome
Itinerary
Training
Support our Fundraising
Fundraising Tips
Kit List
Additional Information

s
t
n
e
t
n
o
C

3
4
9
10
11
13
14

Thank you and congratulations for signing up to the Islamic
Relief Cherry Blossom Challenge. This guide will provide you
with everything you will need to prepare for the challenge,
including an itinerary and checklist.

On this tough 10-day challenge, you will trek 946km across
Hunza Valley to Skardu Valley starting at Islamabad. Both
Valleys are located in Gilgit-Baltistan, a region of breathtaking
nature and boasting some of the most serene scenery you’ll
ever see. Home to some of the largest mountains in the world,
it is the perfect playground for adventurous souls. 

As well as taking part in the challenge, you will have the chance
to meet and spend time with fellow challengers - saving lives
and making friends for life! 

As you train and prepare for this adventure of a lifetime, you
will fundraise £2,000 to help rebuild Pakistan after the
devastating floods of 2022! Our fundraising team are here to
help you reach your fundraising goal. You are not alone in this,
we know you can do it and we’re to help!

We can’t wait to take on this adventure with you!

17th April
Arrival in Islamabad

You will fly into Islamabad International Airport
where our team will meet you. 

The team will take you to the hotel after
checkin which is at 11am. You will have the rest
of the day to shake off any jet lag. If you’re an
intrepid explorer who believes jet lag is for the
weak, you will be free to check out the city at
your leisure. 

We will bring everyone together in the evening
for an initial welcome and briefing. 
Hotel: Roomy Hotel 

1
y
a
D

18th April 
Visit Islamic Relief Projects 

You will be introduced to the Islamic Relief team based in our
Pakistan Head Office in Islamabad. 

You will have the opportunity to speak to the staff about their
work and learn about the projects we deliver in Pakistan. 

We will also take you out to see some of our active projects in
Rawalpindi, allowing you to meet some of our rightsholders
and hear how your beautiful efforts impact their lives. 

The evening will be spent enjoying the city view of Islamabad
from Monal Restaurant in the hills, overlooking the city. 
Hotel: Roomy Hotel Islamabad 

2
y
a
D

Please note that this itinerary is subject to change.

 
 
19th April Islamabad to Chilas 

Today we begin our journey to the spectacular landscape of Northern
Pakistan!

3
y
a
D

We won’t lie to you, the day begins with an early start with an eleven-hour
drive between Islamabad and Chilas with a stop for lunch in Besham. 

This gives you plenty of time to get to know those you are on this journey
with and watch the changing landscape become more dramatic as you
continue north. 
Hotel: Shangrila Hotel Chilas 

20thApril 
Chilas to Hunza Valley 

4
y
a
D

Another day of driving North but this time you’ll be stopping along the
way to take in some of the iconic spots of the area including Nanga
Parbat View Point and Junction Point (one the world’s highest mountain
ranges!) 

The scenes will be immaculate and you’ll be wishing you had cleared
more space in your camera memory! 
Hotel: Best Western Hotel 

Please note that this itinerary is subject to change.

 
 
21st April 
Chill & Thrill Day! 

Start with a visit to the historic Altit Fort,
where you can enjoy breathtaking mountain
views. Then, head to the lively Hunza
Market to shop for local treasures and treat
yourself to delicious street food.

Next, experience the thrill of crossing the
legendary Husaini Bridge and capture
stunning photos of the iconic Passu Cones.

After an action-packed day, relax and
unwind as you make your way back to the
hotel to reflect on all the unforgettable
moments!

5
y
a
D

22nd April 
Trek to Passu Glacier
On this day, you'll head to the stunning
Borith Lake, where the adventure begins
with a 4-hour hike to the magnificent
Passu Glacier. 

Afterward, you'll return to Borith Lake and
relax for the night at Luzus Hunza, ready
for a restful sleep and another exciting day
ahead!

6
y
a
D

Please note that this itinerary is subject to change.

 
 
23rd April 
Travel to Skardu

Get ready for an exciting 6-hour journey to Skardu,
where you'll visit the breathtaking Shagrila Lake and
Uper Kachura Lake, soaking in the stunning views. After
a day full of adventure!

You will spend the night in Skardu 
Hotel: Green Pak Resort

7
y
a
D

24th April 
Shigar Valley Tour 

8
y
a
D

After enjoying a hearty breakfast to kickstart your day,
you'll set off on a scenic 1-hour trek to the charming
organic village in Skardu, passing through the fascinating
cold desert landscape. 

After a day full of exploration and adventure, you'll head
back to Skardu to relax and unwind for the night 
Hotel: Green Pak Resort

Please note that this itinerary is subject to change.

 
 
25th April 
Back to Islamabad 

On this day you will depart for Skardu and catch a
flight to Islamabad. This is a chance for you to
reflect on your amazing trip as well as get some
rest! 

You will spend the night in Islamabad. 

9
y
a
D

26th April 
A bittersweet goodbye 
There’s never a right time to say goodbye,
however, you’ll have made lasting friendships on
this adventure of a lifetime. 

After being transferred to the airport, you will
eventually arrive back in the UK to return to
normality - likely talking about Northern
Pakistan to anyone who will listen!

0
1
y
a
D

Please note that this itinerary is subject to change.
Please note that this itinerary is subject to change.

 
 
Training

There are elements of this challenge that will likely be new to
your body.

On the trekking days of this challenge, you will be walking 6-7
hours of walking. You will also be taking part in other activities. 
If you haven’t prepared properly, you will be sore all over! 

So how do you train for them?

Walk regularly, ideally on hilly terrain. If there are no hills
near you, you can use your staircase. 

Whilst training, wear all the gear you’ll be trekking in so to
get used to it all - boots, socks, waterproof gear, backpack -
the whole nine yards! 

If you’ve bought new boots, your number one priority
should be to break them in - no one wants to deal with
pesky blisters on the day of the hike!

Start off taking regular one-hour walks during the week and
gradually move to 4-5 hour long walks on the weekends to
build up your stamina.

Be sure to push yourself - work your lungs and don’t just
amble along! Your heart and breathing rates should increase
3-6 times a week for 30-60 minutes each time.

Support our Fundraising

Water for Life 

By taking on this challenge, you’re helping to
provide water to vulnerable communities around
the world 

785 million people around the world do not have
access to clean water, a basic human right? With
global challenges like climate change, the ongoing
impact of COVID-19, and numerous conflicts
affecting millions, the need for safe, clean water
has never been more pressing. Access to clean
water is crucial for health, education, and
economic development, yet so many communities
are left without it.

Islamic Relief is making a difference by working in
over 40 countries to provide sustainable and
reliable sources of water, helping ensure that
vulnerable communities have access to this
essential resource. By participating in this
fundraising campaign, you’re playing a vital role in
making that happen. Every donation you raise will
directly contribute to providing life-saving water
solutions to those who need it most.

The funds you help raise will not only provide
clean water but will also bring hope and dignity to
countless families struggling to survive. Together,
we can make a meaningful impact and create a
brighter, healthier future for those facing
unimaginable hardships. 

Let’s work together to raise awareness, funds, and
help ensure clean water for all!

The gift of water saves lives Allah (SWT) says in
the Quran And whosoever saves one [a life] it is as
if he has saved all of mankind. (Quran 5:32)

Fundraising Tips

Daunted by the prospect? Don’t be, it’s a lot easier than it seems. You’re not the first and
certainly will not be the last to take on such a challenge. Embrace it for all it’s worth. From
the time that you sign up for the adventure to the time that you depart you will not only
be preparing yourself for the adventure of a lifetime but you will be expanding your skills
by holding various fundraisers to help you meet your target amount. It’s important to
break it into smaller, more manageable targets. Fundraising can be easy and enjoyable.
And it really is all down to you. It’s a huge challenge to raise such an amount of money but
remember it is more than achievable. Many challengers over the years have multiplied
their fundraising targets! Here we have outlined a few ideas to help you to raise the target
amount. If you have any questions please let us know and if you need any additional
materials Islamic Relief will be happy to provide them.

E-Fundraising

The internet can, if used well, be an amazing fundraising tool for you. You should already
have your own fundraising page set up online.

Make It Personal

Make your page as compelling as possible by adding your own photograph and text. Make
sure your page communicates the reason you have chosen to raise money, and why you
believe Islamic Relief deserves support. Be creative!

Family & Friends 1st

Before sending an email to your entire address book, ask your closest friends and family to
donate first. An empty page can be a little intimidating, so do make sure to capture a couple
of donations before contacting your entire list of potential sponsors. People tend to match
the amounts already listed on the page, so target your most generous supporters first!

Social Media

This is an excellent way of keeping friends updated and asking friends to pass on your
fundraising page. You can link your JustGiving page to your facebook, and other social media
accounts to expose your page to more people. You can also add it to your stories on
instagram through a link or any other social media you use regularly. Go live before your
challenge as you prepare to create more traction to your page.

Tell Everyone you Know

Email your family, friends and colleagues with a link to your page, but don’t forget other
groups of potential supporters: former colleagues, old school and college friends, and
Facebook/Instagram friends you may be surprised how many would like to sponsor you.
Encourage them all to pass on the message to anyone else that might support Islamic Relief’s
work. You can also contact your work managers and see if your company will match your
donations as many companies may offer this incentive.

Contact your Local Media

local paper, or an appeal for sponsorship on your local radio station, can yield amazing
results. With online fundraising, attracting sponsorship couldn’t be easier — readers and
listeners can simply visit your page and sponsor you direct.

“Every act of goodness is charity”

Prophet Muhammad (SAW)

Kit List

This is a suggested packing list of some items needed for this adventure.
Clothing should be casual and hard-wearing; easy to wash ﬁeld clothes are best for most
of the days. It is best to pack several thinner layers rather than one thick layer.
It is also best not to pack more items than what you actually need as we will be covering
large distances in buses and you don’t want to be squashed up with your luggage!

Track Pants

Waterproof
Trousers

Waterproof
Jacket

Thermals

Micro-fleece

T-shirt

Cap/Hat

Boots

Trainers

Slippers

Socks

Gloves

Backpack

Reusable 
Bottle

Torch

Sunglasses

Medicine

First Aid Kit

Sunscreen

Insect
Repellent

Hand
Santisier

Wipes

Sewing Kit

Passport

Insurance
Certificate

Additional Information
Service Inclusion
Travel Dates:
17th - 27th April 
Destination:
Pakistan
What is included:

Hotels:

Islamabad: Roomy Hotel 
Chilas: Shangrila Hotel Chilas
Hunza: Best Western Hotel 
Skardu: Green Pak Resort 

English Speaking Travel Guide
Meals (Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner)
Daily Evening Tea/Green Tea
All transfers to cities and towns
Fuel Expenses, Toll & Parking Fees
4*4 Vehicle (where required)
Mineral Water in Vehicles
Accommodation
Entry Tickets
Invitation Letter & Visa Assistance
Basic First Aid
River Rafting Equipment
Rock Climbing Equipment
Porters for camping equipment

What is NOT included:

Flights
Travel Insurance
Food outside of arranged meals
Porters for personal luggage participants
Flight Cancellations
Laundry
Room Service
Tips
Any additional excursions

Thank you!

Thank you for your commitment, your time, and your heart in this important
Water for Life mission.

Your support is often the gift of life itself and we take special care to reach those
who are most at risk, which is only possible with your support. We’ve seen with
our own eyes how their lives have been uplifted and transformed by what you
give.

We look forward to seeing you in Pakistan this April!